TThe philosophy of religion is generally understood to be
the rational study of religious questions, including
questions about the nature of god(s) and the place of
mankind within the universe. Is there a god (or gods)
and, if so, what can we know of the nature of the god(s)
and his/her/its/their interactions in the world of humanity?
Does our understanding of the nature of the god(s)
affect our understanding of ourselves and our relationship
with others? This study is also often called upon to
answer questions of human meaning: Why am I here?
What am I meant to do? Is there an ultimate meaning to
human life in general and my life in particular? These
philosophical and theological questions blend into
questions of morality and ethics: How does one determine
right from wrong action, and how does one decide
on appropriate actions in the face of ambiguity?
Ethics naturally leads to questions of theodicy: Why do
evil people prosper while the good are left to suffer? And what is the appropriate religious response in the face of the evil in our lives and
the lives of others? Underlying these questions of theodicy is a particular understanding
of the nature of the gods. We ask, specifically, if god (or the gods)
is good and just, why is there evil in the world?
These questions can extend beyond the nature of deity to ask not only why
evil exists in general but also why evil strikes when and where it does. Why
does the whirlwind take the one and leave the other? Such questions lead to
more personal questions that can be summarized by the cry, Why me! Why am
I made to suffer, and what can I do to alleviate my own propensity toward
suffering? These questions lead in turn to questions of destiny: Is there a reason
why I am here, at this place and in this time? Does my life have meaning
beyond the needs of day-to-day existence? If there is a meaning to my life, how
do I discover my destiny? And, if destiny can be manipulated, how might I
assure the most positive destiny for myself and those I love?
Although within the Western philosophical tradition these questions have
generally been asked and answered from the dominant male perspective, contemporary
women have entered the fray, asking and answering these questions
from their own perspectives. Thus one must ask one final set of questions:
How do our ideas of god (or the gods), human beings, and their
interactions change in the light of gender awareness? Does the normative male
perspective incorporate the thinking and experiences of both men and
women? If not, how does the experience of women change our understandings
of the great philosophical and theological questions?
The Male as Normative
Much philosophical thinking assumes what is known as the "normative male
perspective." Not only are the major thinkers across traditions men, but the
descriptions of both the gods and human beings imply that maleness is the
base case - that is, the gods and the people incorporated into philosophical
thinking are presumed to be male unless they are specifically identified otherwise.
In her 2003 article in Cross Currents, Rita M. Gross says that this preference
for maleness over femaleness is one of the most deeply rooted problems
in our cultural psyche and that it is "probably due in part to religious symbol
systems that contain deeply misogynist elements and personify the most valued
and ultimate symbols as masculine" (12). This has led, she says, to a belief
that what is male is "normal," that everything deviating from stereotypical
maleness is abnormal, and that men are unencumbered by gender, since gender is one of those characteristics that distinguish some human beings as outside
the (male) norm. This deep-seated preference for characteristics that have
been culturally constructed as male over those that have been constructed as
female as well as over other cultural gender constructions has led to a general
acceptance of women who want to act like men but a continued abhorrence of
men who take on any characteristic that has been culturally defined as "female."
My intention in this book is to explore these issues of gender through the
lens of the philosophy and practices of the Orisha traditions as they have developed
in the Americas. My analysis of the beliefs and practices of the devotees
of the Orisha suggests that, unlike the mainstream religions Gross alludes
to, they exist within a female-normative system in which all practitioners, regardless
of their own understandings of their sex or gender or sexual orientation,
are expected to take up female gender roles in the practice of the religion.
Although there are instances in which male roles are expected of both men and
women in the religion, the more common situation is the adoption of female
roles. How, then, might our perceptions of the philosophical and theological
questions raised above be changed in a system that valorizes the female over
the male, and how might the lives of the individuals caught up in a female normative
system change?
If what Gross says is true - and I believe that it is - this book will be extremely
difficult for both scholars and practitioners of these Orisha traditions,
because it challenges not only Western theological traditions but also misogynistic
attitudes within communities of practitioners. In one way or another
the questions we will be exploring have challenged human beings for millennia.
However, for the past two thousand years, they have been most systematically
analyzed within the confines of the Western Christian milieu. Even when
Europeans began to investigate the ideas of non-Western religious systems,
they generally worked from within a Western Christian foundation, so that,
having developed a highly sophisticated theology based on biblical and Western
philosophical traditions, they viewed the new religious traditions they
found in Asia and later in Africa and the Americas through the lens of their
understandings of Christian theology. Thus the literature of encounters between
Europeans and the Others they found around the world is full of attempts
by those Others and their conversation partners to describe their religious
ideas in Western philosophical and theological terms.
This book is not an attempt to continue that (generally discredited) project.
Rather, it is an effort to formulate the beginnings of a theology of the
contemporary Orisha traditions using the Western philosophical and theological categories while approaching them from a different perspective. Although
I am striving to answer the questions posed above, I will do so from
the point of view of one who has become immersed in the Orisha traditions.
Generally these traditions in the United States are based on the Afro-Cuban
religious complex known as Santería. As we will discuss, Santería is understood
to be a syncretization of the Orisha traditions brought to the Americas
by enslaved Yoruba-speaking people and the colonial Catholic traditions they
found when they arrived in the Americas. Although that is a misrepresentation
of the tradition, it is important to recognize that contemporary practitioners
of the Orisha traditions in the United States, Cuba, and even Nigeria have all
been influenced by the Western colonial project and are familiar with at least
the popular rendition of Western Christian theological and philosophical concepts.
At the same time, it is important for scholars and practitioners to gain an
understanding of this tradition and the ways in which its foundational ideas
are different from those found either in the Western monotheistic traditions of
Christianity, Judaism, and Islam or in the various polytheistic or atheistic
Asian traditions - Hinduism, Buddhism, Shinto, and the like. Perhaps an example
of one of those fundamental differences will be helpful at this point.
Christianity and Islam are generally considered salvational religious traditions.
This means that among the fundamental beliefs is that, when one dies,
one's life is judged worthy of punishment or reward. There are no second
chances in these traditions. Once one dies, judgment is made and one's fate is
determined. Within Hinduism and Buddhism, on the other hand, the idea of
samsara prevails. Within these traditions one is continually born and reborn,
each death leading to a new rebirth. The reward for a good life is rebirth at a
higher level. The ultimate reward is nirvana, a stepping off the wheel of rebirth
and an extinction of the "self." (Nirvana is a Sanskrit word meaning "extinction.")
Continuing to be born and reborn is always a penalty; the goal is to
elude rebirth altogether. Although they are different in many ways, all of these
traditions see human life ("this world") as miserable, and all look forward to a
future that is different from the everyday. Like Buddhism and Hinduism, Yoruba
traditional beliefs include an idea of reincarnation, a belief that those who
have lived before will live again. Significantly, among the Yoruba, reincarnation
is believed to generally follow the family line - that is, the dead are reincarnated
as their own descendants, often their grand- or great-grandchildren.
However, the more important way in which the Yoruba understanding of reincarnation
is different from the Asian traditions is the understanding that rebirth
is a reward for having lived a good life. There is no idea of rising through
levels of social hierarchy or of an ultimate reward of eluding rebirth altogether.
Introduction • 5
Only the most evil and warped human being is denied rebirth within the Yoruba
tradition. This leads to (or comes from) a valorization of this life - the
viewpoint that, in spite of the hardships of day-to-day living, life is good, this
is where we all want to be, and death is only a temporary respite between
lifetimes. This was summed up for me in the proverb "Life in heaven cannot
be pleasant, otherwise people would not live so long and come back so
quickly."
Each of these positions about the afterlife leads to different ways of acting
and thinking. Each provides a different basis on which to answer such great
theological questions as: How am I to live? How am I to react to the inevitable
ups and downs along the way? We will examine the ways contemporary
Orisha worshippers are encouraged to answer these questions and the ways
this idea and others like it inform their idea of the good life. At this point what
is important is a recognition that such differences exist and that they can radically
change one's view of the world.

Santería: A Brief Overview

My curse be on ye for your disloyalty and disobedience, so let your children
disobey you. If you send them on an errand, let them never return to bring
you word again. To all the points I shot my arrows will ye be carried as
slaves. My curse will carry you to the sea and beyond the seas, slaves will
rule over you, and you their masters will become slaves.
Prince Adebo
The Orisha traditions in the United States are known variously as Santería,
Lukumi (sometimes spelled Lucumí), Ifá, Regla de Ocha (Sp., Rule of the
Orisha),Yoruba Traditional Religion, or Orisha Religion.2 Although this
book is written from the viewpoint of traditional Santería (Lukumi) practice,
much of what is said here also applies to these variants of Yoruba-based religion
as well as to the Brazilian tradition of Candomblé. During the eighteenth
and early nineteenth centuries, thousands of Africans were brought from the
west coast of Africa to the Americas to work as slaves on the plantations created
by European colonists.3 After 1762 when the English captured the Spanish
port of Havana, and after the Haitian revolution of 1794, the European
passion for sugared foods was increasingly met by sugar from Cuban plantations.
Hundreds of thousands of Yoruba-speaking people were brought to the
New World to work these plantations. By 1888 nearly 10 million African men
and women had made the Middle Passage to the Americas. It is estimated that
between 500,000 and 700,000 of these Africans were brought to Cuba.