<file= AmE06_F01>

If Hillary Clinton still needs further evidence that the entirety of Generation Y isn't suffering from indolence, a grossly out-of-whack sense of entitlement, and Xbox-triggered carpal tunnel syndrome, she might want to consider the saga of Keira Knightley. Raised in a London suburb by her dad, theater and TV actor Will Knightley, and her actress-turned-playwright mother, Sharman Macdonald, Knightley famously informed her parents that she'd like to get an agent ... at the ripe age of three. Judiciously, they put the rug rat off until she turned seven. In the years since, Knightley, now just 21, has crossed off pretty much every item on a checklist of milestones that any aspiring actress could hope to accomplish in the span of a long career. 
The quirky indie cred came early with her breakout role in 2002's Bend It Like Beckham, a film that, despite costing about as much as a can of tomato soup to produce and concerning the questionably marketable subject of girls playing soccer, managed to gross more than $76 million worldwide. Knightley made Ebert swoon and went on to score an Oscar nomination for her nuanced, vulnerable portrayal of Elizabeth Bennet in Pride & Prejudice, a sweet little film that served as a welcome sorbet following two expensive, testosterone-soaked critical flops, King Arthur and Domino. The mass adulation came as Knightley, who, despite being closer to Olive Oyl than Marilyn Monroe on the starlet body-type continuum, dispatched pneumatic icons like Angelina Jolie to be voted sexiest film actress of all time by readers of the British movie magazine Empire. As for a glamorous, crazily remunerative gig shilling stuff, Knightley recently unseated fellow striking beanpole Kate Moss to be the new face of Chanel's Coco Mademoiselle fragrance line. And somehow, unlike certain American contemporaries, she matured publicly with her dignity intact, with nary a public catfight or embarrassing head-in-toilet photo in her tabloid file.

How does she pull it off? "Since the first time I met her, she's been totally unwilling to compromise herself in any way," says Orlando Bloom, her swashbuckling snog-mate in Pirates of the Caribbean. "She hasn't picked up any sort of entourage. She surrounds herself with friends and family, which is key to maintaining a sense of reality even when everything seems unreal. She just possesses that rare grounded quality."
"Keira's an incredibly focused young woman," says Joe Wright, who directed her in Pride & Prejudice and has cast her in his upcoming adaptation of Ian McEwan's novel Atonement. "I think she was underestimated for a while, and I think she set out to disprove that when playing Elizabeth. She wanted to make sure she was getting the kind of attention that she deserves for a reason. She's not particularly into this whole celebrity bullshit thing. Keira actually really loves the craft of acting and just wants to be the best craftswoman she can be."

What else can Knightley achieve in the next 70 or so years she's got left on Earth? With the opening of Pirates of the Caribbean 2: Dead Man's Chest comes the first indicator of whether Knightley will be able to boast of starring in one of the most successful film franchises of all time. The first Pirates grossed more than $650 million worldwide - enough to convince Disney to cough up the kind of loot required to lure Knightley, Bloom, and Johnny Depp into baking in the hot Caribbean sun for nearly eight months while concurrently shooting two sequels. That searing sunshine was a distant memory the rainy night ELLE spoke with Knightley in Rome, where she was midway through shooting Silk, an independent period romance set for release next year. Gazing out the window of her room at the Hotel Raphael at the glistening cobblestones of the piazza below, the sparky ingenue chatted about her persnickety parents, the lingering rumors of surgical enhancement, and that Pride & Prejudice costar boyfriend she's so secretively tucked away.

ELLE: Did the Oscar nomination change your life at all?
KEIRA KNIGHTLEY: For ages and ages, everybody was going, "Oh, she's just a pretty face. She absolutely can't act." And I was always going, "Well, maybe they're right; I don't know." So that at least shut them up for a while.
ELLE: Did you have any inkling while you were shooting Pride & Prejudice that you'd really nailed the part?
KK: Oh God, no! I still have nightmares about that film. I wake up thinking, Oh shit, I should have played it like that or I should have done this like that. I can't watch it because I'll just be going, "Why did you do that?"
ELLE: What's your biggest splurge since making the big money?
KK: My flat in London, which I bought two years ago. I started working when I was seven, and ever since then I've been saving for an apartment. Even before that I had a little jam jar designated for my apartment money. I suppose that comes from my mom and dad being in theater. They were always saying, "As soon as you can, buy a flat and get a roof over your head. If it all falls apart, at least you won't be sleeping under a bridge."
ELLE: Do you find that your parents, both being of the theater world, are particularly critical of your performances? 
KK: They're fantastically supportive but also highly critical. I prefer that to somebody completely bullshitting me. They'll say if they think something is shit. Actually, they won't - they'll just go very silent and go, "Oh, that was nice." Nice is the worst word.
ELLE: Theater people tend to be a competitive lot. Do you think your parents experience any jealousy that they never made the money or got the exposure that you've gotten? 
KK: Envy is the last thing that they feel. If anything, it's quite the reverse. I think they kind of go, "Phew, that's not for us." There's much more worry than envy.
ELLE: What are they so worried about? 
KK: My dad always says, "I really wish this had happened way later so you could go and be f--king nuts and nobody would care, and you could grow up." Because of the success, there's obviously a lot of comments made if I'm coming out of a club trashed or whatever. That's when they go, "Oh, I wish this hadn't happened." And right now I spend a lot of time alone in hotel rooms, and I think they want me to be in one place and be a bit more grounded. My dad wrote this brilliant thing in my twenty-first-birthday card: "I'm not going to say, 'I hope you get all you wish for.' I'm going to say, 'I hope that you can handle all that you've got.'"
ELLE: If we gathered all your ex-boyfriends in a room, what do you think they would commiserate about? 
KK: That I work too much.
ELLE: Has this become a big issue in your romantic life? 
KK: It's impossible. You try to have any kind of relationship with your family, with a man, or with a friend, and you have to be on the phone and the Internet the entire time. The other main complaint would probably be, "Don't squeeze your spots," which I'm afraid has been a big thing for me for a while. I get a load of zits, and I'm always squeezing them in the bathroom mirror.
ELLE: You speak quite a lot in interviews about those pimples. What's your acne regimen consist of these days? 
KK: At the moment, soap and water. It's working okay. And I find that drinking red wine is quite helping. The more red wine I drink, the more they clear up.
ELLE: Are you sure that you're not just unable to see yourself clearly in the mirror?
KK: It could be that, too. Yes, it's very blurry.
ELLE: Besides the spots and absence, are you a good girlfriend? 
KK: No, I'm awful. I always have freak-outs. I don't know why anyone puts up with me. I'm mostly an emotional wreck.
ELLE: Do these freak-outs arise over stupid stuff or big issues? 
KK: It's stupid shit. I don't freak out about anything that actually warrants a freak-out. That I can deal with. It's the little stuff I can't deal with.
ELLE: How unpleasant is it for men to fight with you? 
KK: I don't think any fights are that pleasant. Anyone who has ever gone out with me would tell you that I have this awful tendency to cry when I get really angry. And I can't stop.
ELLE: Interesting habit. There's nothing that will cause a man to lay down his arms faster than a crying woman.
KK: Yeah, I've found that, too. 
ELLE: Do you suppose it's just a tactic to win?
KK: Absolutely not. If I could stop it I would, because I can occasionally come up with some fantastically cutting one-liners in fights. I'll come out with one, and say, "Oh, that was great," but suddenly I'll find I'm crying. And I'll be like, "Shit, I completely ruined my one-liner." It's annoying. 
ELLE: Will you tell me every detail of your reported relationship with your Pride & Prejudice costar Rupert Friend?
KK: I'm absolutely not answering that question. I don't talk about my private life. Brilliantly formed question, though. 
ELLE: Thanks, I guess. What piece of gossip have you read about yourself that you only wish had been true?
KK: That I got paid eight million pounds for Pride & Prejudice. I won't tell you what I did get, but it was way less than that. Also, a friend told me that they read that I only travel on private jets now, which is really good to know. So I'll have to cancel my flight from Rome on Thursday now that I know I'm going to be picked up by my private jet. 
ELLE: Is there anything untrue that's been repeated over and over?
KK: I went for a very long time reading that I'd had a lip job. That was around for ages after I met a rather nasty man at a party who came up to me and said, "Is it true you've had your lips done?" And I stupidly went, "Oh, yeah, that's right," instead of saying, "No, that's not true." But that's gone away now.
ELLE: Speaking of ballooning body parts, there was some controversy over the posters for King Arthur, where your breasts seemed digitally enlarged. 
KK: Yes, those things certainly weren't mine. I remember we had an interesting discussion when [the studio] said, "We want to make them slightly larger. And you'll get approval." And I was like, "Okay fine. I honestly don't give a shit." But then they showed me the first copy and these things must have been double Es, and they were down to my knees. I was like, "I don't mind you making them bigger, but don't give me f--king droopy breasts! They look like your grandmother's tits." So for the poster they were scaled back to a C cup.
ELLE: American audiences tend to be exacting about breast size in their actresses. 
KK: It does seem to be a big thing with Americans. I did one magazine and found out you're not actually allowed to be on their cover without at least a C cup because it turns people off. Apparently they've done the market research and found that women want to see no less than a C cup on other women. Isn't that crazy? So they made my tits bigger for that as well.
ELLE: On the subject of magazine covers, you and Scarlett Johansson posed nude for Vanity Fair, while Rachel McAdams walked off the shoot because she didn't want to disrobe. How did that go down? 
KK: It was actually pretty undramatic as I remember it. Quite early on Rachel just said, "No, I'm not into that." She's a lovely girl, and I really respect her for doing that.

</file>

<file= AmE06_F02>

Part of the problem was market related - refining margins were terrible as a weak economy sank gas prices - but accidents and other operational glitches played a role too.
Woertz ended up replacing her entire senior management team. One ex-Chevron executive who lost his job thinks there were instances where Woertz's ambition and lack of engineering expertise caused her to fault people for what were really equipment problems. "But overall I liked what I saw of her," he says. "Chevron was stuck in the mud in terms of our [downstream] operations, and there was no question we had to improve our reliability."
As part of the reorganization, Woertz aimed to save $500 million by trimming operating expenses, reducing refinery downtime - with a heavy emphasis on improved safety - and getting better oil deals for her refineries. She met the goal a year ahead of schedule. Asked about Woertz during a recent interview with Fortune, current Chevron CEO David O'Reilly singled out the job she did reorganizing downstream operations. His conclusion: "Pat's a good leader."
Had Woertz stuck around, she probably would have been a contender to succeed O'Reilly. But at age 60, he is presumably several years from retirement, and Woertz, who is 53, felt ready. She stepped down from Chevron (Charts) in February in part to pursue a CEO post. 
Selling the CEO
Once headhunter Tom Neff of Spencer Stuart called about ADM, Woertz turned getting hired into a full-time job. She was named ADM's CEO in April. Kelvin Westbrook, the ADM board member who led the search, says he and his fellow directors were impressed by Woertz's leadership skills, her track record at Chevron, and also by "how well she understood our business."
According to an ADM SEC filing, the board awarded her a $4.2 million first-year pay package, plus another $6.5 million in long-term stock grants.
At meetings with employees, Woertz has tried to convey how well positioned she thinks ADM is for growth. She has allayed (sort of) concerns about her commitment to Decatur by saying a headquarters move "is not my priority." When asked if she's as enthusiastic about the food and feed businesses as she is about biofuels, she insists she is. She touts the thriving vegetable oil business (part of which is driven by biodiesel demand) as well as demand for healthier food ingredients like Novalipid, a no-transfat cooking oil, and maltodextrin, an additive for low-fat foods.
Still, Woertz does dodge when pressed on her priorities, indicating she'll have more to say after ADM's November board meeting. Dave Edwards, an analyst with ThinkEquity Partners, believes Woertz's biggest challenge will be deciding how to allocate spending among food, feed, and fuel. Edwards's own view: "Biofuels is the better opportunity." Woertz's plans might not be revealed until there's a crisis. In a 2005 speech at Wharton Business School, she talked about how the positives from Chevron's downstream reorganization wouldn't have been possible without wrenching personnel decisions. "It underscores the shadow side of creativity," she said. "Nothing is created without something being destroyed."
So far, other than killing a fertilizer project in Brazil, Woertz's most notable course change at ADM has been instructing the head of the Washington, D.C., office to register as a lobbyist. Despite ADM's legendary political clout, it has never officially done any lobbying. The emphasis is on "officially." Dwayne Andreas was close friends with Bob Dole when the Kansas Republican (and ethanol supporter) was Senate Majority Leader. ADM still wields influence via personal contacts or organizations like the Renewable Fuels Association, a pro-ethanol group ADM helps fund.
Former U.S. Senator Peter Fitzgerald, a pro-ethanol Republican who represented ADM's home state of Illinois from 1999 to 2005, says the company "never once contacted me about ethanol" during his term in the Senate. "They didn't have to," he adds, "because every month there would be 20 or 30 people from the Corn Growers Association or the Farm Bureau in my office." The RFA also called on Fitzgerald, and on top of all of the groups' lists, he says, was ethanol. To her credit, Woertz wants ADM to stop hiding behind proxies.
But it still hides specifics about ethanol - namely, how much money it makes from it. By Fortune's estimates, ADM earned a minimum of $610 million pretax - and probably more - from ethanol production during the 2006 fiscal year that ended in June. ADM declined comment. We arrived at our figure by analyzing the SEC filings of Little Sioux Corn Processors, a small ethanol plant in Marcus, Iowa; ADM holds a 40% stake in it, and the plant's ethanol prices are tied to ADM's own through a marketing agreement. During ADM's fiscal year, Little Sioux recorded 61 cents in profit for each gallon of ethanol it sold. (Between June 2005 and June 2006, the price of ethanol ballooned from $1.30 to $4 a gallon.) ADM itself produces one billion gallons of ethanol a year, which means ethanol production probably accounted for at least 30% of ADM's $2.1 billion in operating profit in fiscal 2006.
Because ADM sells ethanol through long-term contracts, "the prices they're getting now probably haven't yet peaked," adds Ken Gau, a money manager with mutual fund company Waddell & Reed, an ADM shareholder.
Government subsidies prop profitability
Why has ethanol been so lucrative? The simple answer is that its price is inflated by a 51-cent federal tax credit refiners receive for each gallon they blend with gasoline. There are also hefty tariffs on imported ethanol - stymieing foreign competition - as well as a mandate in the 2005 energy bill that refiners blend a minimum of 4.7 billion gallons of ethanol with gas per year in 2007.That requirement rises to 7.5 billion gallons in 2012.
On the topic of ethanol subsidies, Woertz treads carefully: "I have always supported free trade and commerce. Having said that, there are subsidies in many industries," she says. "And you live within the rules of the game." That sounds reasonable - until you remember those rules were written by ADM's friends in Congress. Woertz strikes a more persuasive chord with her other prosubsidy argument. Ethanol is "a here and now," she says, whereas other energy alternatives "are a lot longer down the road."
There's been much back-and-forth over ethanol subsidies. The debate often boils down to competing scientific claims over whether ethanol provides more energy than the fossil fuels required to produce it. ADM and the farm lobby cite the findings of the U.S. Department of Agriculture, which concluded in 2004 that every unit of fossil fuel energy invested in ethanol production produces 1.67 units of energy from ethanol. 
Ethanol foes embrace the work of David Pimental, a Cornell University professor who, along with research partner Tad Patzek of the University of California at Berkeley, contends there's less than a one-to-one relationship between ethanol's energy output and the natural gas, coal, and petroleum consumed by growing corn and distilling it. (The USDA gets more favorable results by including the distillers' grain byproduct in its energy calculations.)
Pimental and Patzek's critics tend to portray them either as lackeys of the oil industry - a suggestion Don Endres, CEO of ethanol company VeraSun, made recently to Fortune - or incompetents whose conclusions are based on 20-year-old data - the charge of Tim Burrack, former president of the Iowa Corn Growers Association. Pimental counters that he uses the latest figures on crop yields and the like - many straight from the USDA itself - and insists he's never gotten a dime from oil companies.
Patzek isn't above a little name-calling himself, dubbing the USDA "a wholly owned subsidiary of ADM." Woertz's own take on the debate is unsurprising: "It's clear there is an energy positive in producing ethanol," she says. However, even if one assumes ethanol's energy balance is positive, there's still a limit to how much ethanol will reduce U.S. dependence on foreign oil.
Chevron's O'Reilly argues that growing corn to produce ethanol is misguided, potentially resulting in higher food prices. (Such concerns are shared by cattle and poultry farmers, who use corn for feed.) "The math just doesn't work," says O'Reilly, who sees more potential in cellulosic ethanol, which is produced from grass or agricultural waste. "Fifteen percent of the corn crop right now goes into ethanol, but ethanol is only 2% of our fuel," says O'Reilly. "Do the math, and figure out how practical that is for the long term." Asked whether he's ever discussed this with Woertz, he laughs. "No," he says, "but she knows it too."
Woertz is diplomatic when told of O'Reilly's remarks, saying she and her ex-boss agree that U.S. fuel needs cannot be satisfied by corn ethanol alone. She says ADM is putting R&D dollars into cellulosic ethanol. And she isn't jumping on the E-85 bandwagon, even as the farm lobby pushes for wider production of "flex-fuel" vehicles that can run on this 85% ethanol, 15% gasoline blend.
Woertz's goals for ethanol skew toward the practical. She thinks the U.S. market can triple to 15 billion gallons a year, effectively meaning every gallon of gas would be a 10% ethanol and 90% gasoline mix, a blend any car can use. There's also little dropoff in gas mileage, and service stations wouldn't be forced to install special pumps - both problems with E-85. Pointing to advances in corn-seed technology, Woertz thinks 15 billion gallons is achievable without adding much acreage or affecting the food supply. "We're getting more yield per acre than ever before," she says.
Those rising crop yields combined with fat ethanol profits have the Midwest buzzing with new ethanol-plant construction. ADM has broken ground on new plants in Cedar Rapids, Iowa, and Columbus, Neb., that will add 550 million gallons in yearly production. The company has also begun work on a bioplastics plant in Clinton, Iowa. (Woertz calls corn-derived, biodegradable plastics "one of our most interesting long-term ventures.")
Overall, there are 25 ethanol plants operating in Iowa alone, with another 22 on the drawing board. Many of the new ones are farmer-owned cooperatives, and they've taken a bite out of ADM's market share, down from 70% in the mid-1990s to 20% today. ADM will regain some share once Cedar Rapids and Columbus go online, but all the new capacity poses problems. Iowa State University economist Robert Wisner says if all the proposed plants were built, ethanol would consume Iowa's entire corn crop. At the least, there would be a steep rise in corn prices, now $2 a bushel.
For the farmers who have invested in ethanol plants, high corn prices are nothing to be scared of. Another benefit: Farmland prices in Iowa counties with ethanol plants are appreciating much faster than those without them, according to the Iowa Land Sales Report. But in this instance, what's good for farmers isn't good for ADM. A rise in corn prices, combined with a continued fall in gasoline prices, would effectively be a repeat of the margin collapse that afflicted oil refiners in 2002.
Woertz sees the parallel. "I come from an industry that understands margins can be the jaws of life or the jaws of death," she says. "Any industry building capacity as rapidly as the ethanol industry has to ask itself whether margins are going to fluctuate." Her answer: They will. "ADM's strength is we're building these big plants that are very cost-competitive." Given the likelihood of a margin squeeze, Woertz's decision to stand by food and feed makes perfect sense.
"If you're a pure ethanol company and the ethanol market goes bad, you have nothing to fall back on," says Waddell's Gau. ADM can take the corn and soy it had been turning into fuel, and process it into in-demand food products instead. "When one product doesn't have very good margins, another does," says Woertz. "Think about a tree with apples on it, with all the apples ripening at different times."
The question is, If gas prices keep falling, will Wall Street still care about ADM's other apples?

</file>

<file= AmE06_F03>

The Mission as Shown in the Great Seal
Like prophecy, the Great Seal reveals our nation's destiny.
The definitive book on all its complex metaphysical symbolism is by Paul Foster Case, "The Great Seal of the United
States : Its History, Symbolism and Message for the New Age" (Builders of the Adytum, 1935). 3 For the student of
occultism, it will be easily seen that the founders of the U.S. were metaphysicians (i.e., awakened souls), that the
purpose upon which the nation was founded was that of an ideal, evolved, pluralistic society under God's guidance,
and that its destiny intends the realization of this purpose.
In this thin (only 34 pages long) but jam-packed book is shown the deep significance of the number Thirteen, the
multifaceted symbolism of the obverse and reverse sides of the Great Seal, the Declaration's explicit intent to
conceive a government in harmony with Divine Providence, and the New World Order of the ages (Novus Ordo
Seclorum) that such an entity would bring into being. The wise founders knew that, to bring this destiny to
fulfillment, the work of man would need to be completed by a higher power.
For instance, the all-seeing Eye on top of the pyramid, which refers to Heavenly Wisdom as well as each person's
own Third Eye, is the symbol of both watchful spiritual care and inner guidance, built upon a foundation of longlasting
strength. The words Annuit Coeptis mean "He hath prospered our undertaking," a clear reference to God's
hand in this nation's creation. 4 The words E Pluribus Unum mean "Out of the many, one," a statement of the uniting
not only of self-governing states but of the diversity of mankind's cultures, races, and religions. And the eagle itself,
always the Scorpionic symbol of regeneration, represents both power and vision, with every item it holds or displays
reinforcing the meaning of perfected humanity. The density of symbolism detailed in this little handbook is too great
for the scope of this article, but suffice it to say that each and every detail of the Great Seal was carefully chosen to
convey a purpose and a destiny imbuing this government. The Founding Fathers did not escape tyranny and
oppression just to throw together any old system!
So America is The Great Experiment: people ruling themselves, not by a king, not by a religion, but by a philosophy
and an ideal, which is truly the definition of democracy. The outcome of this Great Experiment, I believe, leads us to
The New Order of the Ages ...  and if not here, where else in the world would it occur?! Yes, America has flaws, because of its primarily young soul level of awareness. 5 But, America is evolving and maturing, especially as we
deal with Plutonic events of great destruction and rebirth. Many will seek meaning to their lives, and aspire to serving
something greater than the self's appetites. This path will ultimately broaden the meaning of the phrase, "a purposedriven
life", as people react to catastrophes of their brethren with compassion and a search for significance; the
phrase itself will no longer be coempted solely by the Religious Right.
What Chart to Use?
To speak of our nation's future, we must first decide upon which horoscope to use. Popular choices have had Gemini,
Scorpio, or Sagittarius rising, all with their proponents. (When choosing intuitively, not logically, I can see some
merit in the Scorpio rising, with our focus on money and power, but I lean more toward a Sagittarius rising because
of our national motto of freedom to pursue individual self-realization.) Both Gemini and Sagittarius risings offer an
angular Uranus, befitting a nation of individualists, born of revolution.
But, because of Pluto's recent transits, and the great national traumas of 9/11 and Hurricane Katrina, we have
definitive touchstones to rest some solid rectified conclusions upon. As with any defining moment as powerful as
9/11, Pluto must be shown transiting to a major chart element. On that awful day, Pluto was at 12 Sagittarius. The
famous Sibley U.S. chart of 7/4/1776, 5:10PM LMT, Philadelphia , PA , has its Ascendant at 12 Sagittarius.
[Sibley Horoscope  -  progressed to July 30, 2006]
This almost single-handedly confirms the chart, giving us the chance to study house placements, rulerships, and other
astrological factors. It therefore puts Mars into H7 (open enemies, terrorism, attacks), and accounts for the War on
Terror in the years following, as transiting Pluto, ruler of H12 (hidden factors) opposes from H1 (how we're seen, our
image). Then, when Pluto stationed exactly opposite Mars for the final time (on 9/2/05), what foretold another harsh
event was actually an attack by Mother Nature, i.e., Hurricane Katrina. Since Pluto comes from natal H2 (our money,
values), and opposed Mars, ruler of natal H4 (property), the event was an economic disaster against the land itself.
This, too, confirms the rightness of this horoscope.
There's much more: the elevated Neptune, our idealism; the tenth house Saturn (test of power and responsibility), our
role as world police; the angular Uranus (rebellion), a nation of individualists; the Fortuna/Vertex/Node in Leo H8,
Hollywood's existence and great influence on others' values (more on this interesting factor later).
Most ironically, though, using the Sagittarius rising (independence) chart, our Achilles heel is so obvious! It
emphasizes our dependency , which is ... on foreign oil! Neptune (oil) is placed in H9 (foreign), squaring Mars in H7
(enemies). With Pluto now transiting H1, setting off this square, the inevitable drama of cultural clash, the weakness
of the energy dilemma undermining our economy, and hatred of America were all cosmically defined. (By the way, if any reader thinks the election of John Kerry would have forestalled this, they might want to study these astro-patterns
more carefully. Or, perhaps that's why it was inevitable that George W. Bush get reelected, in order to play them out!)
Now, whenever I see such a blatant karmic pattern shown, I have to ask why. What does the universe want out of
this? Why is this drama being thrust upon humankind? There is always a higher purpose behind even the most
horrendous events, if only to force mankind to yearn for solutions to life's suffering.
What patterns are showing now?
Remembering the fact of America 's cosmic purpose, we can look more deeply at the Sibley chart and Pluto's
upcoming transits.
Some really important things are afoot.
Pluto is finishing its 12-year transit of Sagittarius. During its passage, a war of beliefs has raged (Islamic
Fundamentalism vs. Western civilization), a beloved Pope has died and been replaced leaving the church and its role
at a critical crossroads, the O.J. Simpson/Michael Jackson/Robert Blake/Martha Stewart trials have tested the judicial
system, pedophilia in the priesthood has been exposed, the make-up of the U.S. Supreme Court is undergoing change,
and the U.S. relationship with foreign interests has been spotlighted.
The Moon in the Sibley chart (always the planet that will be shifted most when considering various birthtimes) is at
27 Aquarius (brotherhood) in H3 (communications), ruling H8 (other people's money). So transiting Pluto has yet to
sextile it, and will do so in 2007, at the same time that it will semi-sextile its natal position, and trine the nation's
progressed Ascendant at 28 Leo in H9 (better relations with foreign allies). This bodes well for deep positive change
for the people, since Aquarius is humanitarian and democratic (e.g., tv announcers now reflect all races). E Pluribus
Unum ("Out of Many, One") is truly manifesting. Everyone rushed to help fellow Americans in their suffering, and
many nations reached out to America in its hours of need. Did we need disasters to learn to see ourselves in each
other? I guess so.
Perhaps, too, our problems will drive us to invent a new energy source, not for lovely environmental reasons, but for
hard economic ones.
By 2008, Pluto will enter Capricorn. This will surely uncover and cleanse abuses in government and Big Business,
such as fraud and collusion. Just as Pluto's entry into Sagittarius kicked off with a high-profile news event that
revealed the flaws in our legal system, expect 2008 to start off with a very ugly scandal about a mega-corporation
and a big name in government . Flaws in these two intertwined institutions, as well as many other weaknesses and
abuses related to each, will bring disgust before better resolution. And the legal system will continue to remain under
fire as transiting Saturn enters Libra to square transiting Pluto briefly in August 2010. But Capricorn's influence can
bring attention to everything that's aging, from the population to the nation's infrastructure, while Pluto requires
repair, rejuvenation and renovation. Will we figure out how to stave off death, or discover the Fountain of Youth?!
Furthermore, Pluto is hitting the Galactic Center at 26-27 Sagittarius. This is a big moment for humanity  -  and for the
universe  -  since we (and other sentient life) are the manifestation of the universe's evolution to create a form that
knows itself. I believe it represents a huge transformation of this creature ... us! And of Sentient Form itself. It won't
happen right away, but this transit is the key turning point to the evolving New Human.
Getting More Specific  -  Current Happenings:
Transiting Pluto (terror, pressure), ruler of H12 (secrets) from H2 (money), is in H1 (image) finishing its t-square to
our afflicted Neptune, ruler of intercepted H3 (cars), in H9 (always the issue of dependency upon foreign oil), and
Mars (war) in H7 (open enemies). This has brought the Iraq War quagmire, and a debilitating energy crisis, and has
revealed, once again and even more, America 's great weakness. But once the aspect finishes, to its own progressed
position as well (by the end of 2006), it will not repeat until late in the twenty-first century, when Pluto transits the
third decanate of Pisces.
We must find a way to resolve our Achilles heel. Improvement can come with Pluto's emerging sextile to the nation's
humanitarian Aquarian Moon (the people)/progressed Mercury (ideas), trine to the progressed Ascendant, and semisextile
to its own position in H2. Katrina's misery highlighted our national compassion even more than 9/11 or the
Tsunami. Great lessons were given to mankind, not only within our borders, but globally, and America 's generosity
was met by the same from most other nations in our time of need. The Moon in Aquarius (technology) in H3
(communication, transportation, ideas) is dispositor of the Sun in H8. This can be a wonderful period for transformed
empowerment, for emotional and economic growth for the whole country, for improved relationships with other
nations, and for a new inventive approach to alternative fuels, especially as Pluto's quinqunx to Mercury/Node keeps
the pressure on.
Neptune , from H9 (higher values), can help a lot too as it finishes a trine to Saturn in Libra H10, which is bringing
forth compassion and healing, person to person and nation to nation. This is further enhanced as progressed Mars,
which turns retrograde in Libra (relationships) in 2006, works its way towards that Saturn in H10, allowing it to
receive Neptune 's trine as well.
Uranus , ruler of H3, hasn't been as helpful. It is finishing its square to natal Uranus in H6, always a disruptive,
chaotic period, in this case regarding the job market and transportation domain. Buses weren't made available in a
timely manner during Katrina, and two airlines have recently folded. But Uranus will do us some favors later.
Saturn (discipline, limitation), ruler of H2 (money), from H10  -  a test of power  -  will perform its true role of
taskmaster. With Saturn's transit through Leo until September 2007, we see the beginning of a period of tightened
resources for the Baby Boomers born with Pluto in Leo. This also coincides with Saturn's transit of our country's
North Node, a time of greater burdens but maturation. It is conjuncting Node/progressed Moon in Leo (the spotlight)
in H8 (debts, funding), and squaring progressed Saturn retrograde in Scorpio (investments, insurance) in H11 (allies).

</file>

<file= AmE06_F04>

Exercise May Be Key to Breast Cancer Survival
Study shows women who are regularly physically active may fight disease better

There's yet another reason for women to exercise: It may help them beat breast cancer. 
 
That's because research shows that women who are physically active in the year before getting breast cancer are more likely to survive the disease. 
 
"We found a beneficial effect on survival for exercise undertaken in the year before diagnosis, particularly among women who were overweight or obese near the time they were diagnosed with breast cancer," said Page Abrahamson, a postdoctoral researcher at the Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center in Seattle. 
 
Abrahamson's study is in the Oct. 15, 2006 issue of Cancer. 
 
Her team analyzed data on nearly 1,300 women ages 20-to-54 who were diagnosed with invasive breast cancer between 1990 and 1992. The women were asked how frequent and how vigorous their level of physical activity was at ages 13, 20 and during the year before their diagnosis. 
 
Overall, women who ranked in the top 25% in terms of their level of activity were 21% more likely to survive than those rated in the bottom quarter. Activity in the teen years or early adulthood did not affect survival rates. 
 
While research has suggested that regular exercise reduces the risk of getting breast and other cancers, less is known about what effect activity has on a woman's prognosis once she gets the disease. 
U.S. Cancer Death Rates Continue to Drop
Lifestyle shifts and medical advancements improve odds of cancer prevention and survival. 

-- America has officially made a dent in the war on cancer. 
 
"We're making progress because of a reduction in tobacco consumption, improved treatment, and improved detection," said Ahmedin Jemal, program director of cancer occurrence at the American Cancer Society. Jemal is co-author of this year's Annual Report to the Nation on the Status of Cancer, 1975-2003, which is being published in the Oct. 15, 2006 issue of Cancer. 
 
The drop in death rates continues a trend first reported in 1998. This has been the first sustained decline in cancer death rates in the United States since the 1930s. Men experienced greater declines (1.6% per year from 1993 through 2003) than women (0.8% per year from 1992 through 2003). 
 
This year's report also includes the first comprehensive compilation of cancer information for U.S. Latinos. Overall, Latino immigrants have lower rates of cancer than whites or blacks, although they are more susceptible to certain cancers. "They have a higher rate of cancers related to infection like stomach, liver and cervical cancers," Jemal said. "They are also more likely to be diagnosed at advanced stages of the disease for some of the more common cancers, such as breast and lung." 
 
Among the report's other findings: 
 
• Mortality rates dropped for 11 of the 15 most common cancers in men and for 10 of the 15 most common cancers in women. 
 
• Overall cancer incidence rates were stable for men from 1995 through 2003, while rates for women increased from 1979 through 2003. Overall, however, the rates were stable from 1992 through 2003. 
 
• The incidence rate for female breast cancer stabilized from 2001 through 2003, ending a period of increases that had begun in the 1980s. Female lung cancer incidence rates experienced a small rise from 1991 through 2003, a slower rate of increase than in the past. 
 
• Incidence rates among women decreased for colon and rectum, uterus, ovarian, stomach, cervical and oral cancers. 
 
• Among men, incidence rates have decreased for colon, rectum, stomach, lung and oral cancers. They increased for prostate cancer, myeloma, leukemia, and cancers of the liver, kidney and esophagus. 
 
The report is a joint effort from the American Cancer Society, the U.S. CDC, the U.S. National Cancer Institute, and the North American Association of Central Cancer Registries.
How Short Walks Lower Your Blood Pressure
Finding the time for small amounts of activity can have big payoffs

-- Forget that long hike. Four 10-minute strolls will do more to lower your blood pressure than a 40-minute walk. 
 
That's what Indiana University researchers report in the September 2006 issue of the Journal of Hypertension. They compared the effects of the four short walks to one long walk in reducing blood pressure in 20 people with a condition known as prehypertension. 
 
A person with prehypertension would be "135 over 90." This elevated blood pressure level usually progresses to high blood pressure, which is often associated with heart attack, heart failure, kidney failure, stroke and blindness. 
 
The researchers found that while the short walks and the long walk decreased the participants' blood pressure by the same amount, the effect lasted for 11 hours after the short walks, compared to seven hours after the long walk. 
 
The findings may be just the motivation for people who can't seem to fit long bouts of activity in their schedule or are daunted at the prospect of walking for 40 minutes. 
 
"The biggest problem for most people is that they don't have time," said Janet Wallace, professor in the Department of Kinesiology at the Indiana University School of Health, Physical Education and Recreation. "You might think, 'I don't have the time to go to the gym or work out for 40 minutes, but I might have the time to do 10 minutes here, 10 minutes here and another 10 minutes here." 

New Device May Ease Migraine Pain
By tapping into nerve cells, scientists may be able to stop migraines
-- A machine no larger than a hair dryer may be able to bring relief to migraine headache sufferers if they use it early enough. 
 
It's called a transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) device, and it is able to interrupt the development of migraines, according to its maker, who introduced it to data presented at the American Headache Society's annual meeting on June 21, 2006 in Los Angeles. 
 
The TMS device used in this study has been approved by the FDA as an investigational device. It sends an electric current through a metal coil, creating a magnetic field that activates nerve cells in the brain. 
 
Scientists believe that migraine attacks start because of nerve cell hyper-excitability, which is followed by fatigue and malfunction of the nerve cells, or neurons. These phases seem to correlate with aura (changes in vision before the actual pain begins), which is experienced by about 20% of the 28 million Americans who suffer migraine headaches. The study was designed to measure this correlation. 
 
The study, involving 43 people who had migraines with aura, was designed to see if TMS had any effect. Participants were told to give themselves two pulses to the back of the head at the first sign of an aura. 
 
The results were definitive. Seventy-four percent of people in the TMS group said they had no or only a mild headache two hours after using the device, compared with 45% in the control group. Participants also reported a reduction in noise and light sensitivity: 74% of people in the TMS group experienced a reduction in light sensitivity while 75% experienced less noise sensitivity. In the placebo group, only 20% or so experienced such reductions. 
 
A larger study of TMS involving nine medical centers and 200 patients will begin in July 2006, according to Dr. Yousef Mohammad, principal investigator of the study and an assistant professor of neurology at Ohio State University Medical Center. "If we can interrupt this with two pulses of magnetic stimulation, we can abort the headache," he added.

Women Run Greater Risk of Lung Cancer
Study tries to find an improved early detection method
-- Female smokers are more likely to develop lung cancer than their male counterparts, but they're less likely to die of the disease, new research in the July 12, 2006 issue of the Journal of the American Medical Association says. 
 
The study was conducted to determine whether helical CT (a test in which a CT scanner revolves around the patient) can improve survival rates for lung cancer victims. Dr. Claudia I. Henschke of Cornell University studied 7,498 women and 9,427 men aged 40 and older who had a history of cigarette smoking. All participants were screened for lung cancer between 1993 and 2005. 
 
Lung cancer was diagnosed in 2.1% of the women and 1.2% of the men. And while women were roughly twice as likely to have lung cancer, they were only 48% as likely to die of the disease. The results remained consistent even after the researchers compensated for factors such as years of smoking, disease stage, and tumor cell type. 
 
The study points out the need to direct more aggressive anti-smoking efforts at women and girls, and possibly to screen women who are smokers at an earlier stage. 
 
Lung cancer remains the leading cancer killer of both men and women in the United States, according to the American Cancer Society. An estimated 73,000 women and 90,500 men will die of the disease in 2006. Among women, lung cancer is responsible for more deaths than breast and colon cancer combined. 
 
Right now there's no sure way to detect lung cancer early, with most discoveries coming during other medical exams. "Lung cancers get detected every which way," says Dr. Norman Edelman, chief medical officer of the American Lung Association. 
 
Sometimes symptoms, which indicate advanced disease, are the tip-off. Other times, X-rays taken for other reasons point out lung cancer, he says. Spiral CT screening, a procedure similar to the helical CT screening used in the study, is a promising technology on the horizon but is not yet proven. 
 
Can Fruit Control Your Sweet Tooth?
Cornell researchers find some good news for sweet-snack lovers

-- That sugar craving that leads you to reach for a cinnamon bun can be put to good use as you try to improve your eating habits. 
 
People who are drawn to ice cream, candy bars and other sugary sweet snacks also eat more fruit each day than those whose food cravings lead them to salt, new research suggests. 
 
"The take-home message here is that if you are a self-identified sweet lover, try to replace a few sugary snacks with more healthful sweet snacks that are packed with nutrients, not just sugar and calories," said Lona Sandon, a spokeswoman for the American Dietetic Association. 
 
Researchers at Cornell University's Food and Brand Lab analyzed data from an ongoing U.S. Department of Agriculture consumer survey. They found that folks whose foods cravings lean towards sweet snacks also eat more fruits each day than salty-snack lovers do. Even accounting for total snack consumption of all kinds, sweet snacks consumption had more than twice the impact on fruit consumption than did salty-snack intake. 
 
The findings appear in the August 2006 issue of the journal Appetite. 
 
Parents can use their child's sweet/salt preferences as a way to nudge them toward healthier food cravings. And adults can use this information to help improve their own eating habits, the researchers said. 
 
For example, try replacing strawberry ice cream with a smaller serving of vanilla with fresh berries. 
 
When it comes to veggies, aim for the sweeter ones such as red peppers, sweet potatoes, sweet corn and sugar snap peas.
A Good Night's Sleep Improves Memory
Improve your recollection by getting enough Zzzs
-- New research shows sleep is critical in building and maintaining memories, particularly the kind dealing with facts and events. The report is published in the July 11, 2006 issue of Current Biology. 
 
This kind of memory is known as "declarative" memory, which differs from non-declarative memories, or "how to" memories. Sleep has already been shown to help those. 
 
This new finding may be particularly important for people with mentally demanding lifestyles, such as doctors, medical residents and college students, who often do not get enough sleep, the researchers say. 
 
"We sought to explore whether sleep has any impact on memory consolidation," says lead researcher Dr. Jeffrey M. Ellenbogen, a postdoctoral fellow at Harvard Medical School's Center for Sleep and Cognition. "Specifically, the type of memory for facts and events in time."

</file>

<file= AmE06_F05>

Bush's Insane Approach to Cuba
trying to save Cuba or trying to save votes?

By Mark Sawyer 
 
Albert Einstein once defined insanity as "doing the same thing over and over again and expecting different results." George Bush recently in making a speech on Cuba policy and in many ways reflecting on his failed attempt to bring democracy to Iraq, lapsed into just this form of insanity. Bush in a seemingly high minded speech on October 25 affirmed support for the destructive decades long blockade against Cuba as the prime strategy for destabilizing the Cuban Revolution and bringing democracy to the island 90 miles to the South of Florida.
Regardless of how one feels about Fidel Castro or the Cuban Revolution, the US embargo against Cuba is insane. It hurts the people it purports to help. Most dissidents on the island do not support it, and it hurts Black Cubans the very most. Further, the blockade is counter-productive. Everyone knows that interaction and engagement lead to change over time while hostility and isolation maintain the status quo as it has for over forty years. Even a card carrying Communist knows that the number one way to destabilize the regime is to allow Americans to travel there freely, for Cubans to come and go freely to the United States, to allow Cuban athletes to compete in professional baseball and boxing without defecting, and to open up opportunities for trade and economic engagement with the small island. We trade with communist China and Vietnam where 58,169 Americans lost their lives. We now have friendly trade relations with both countries and basketball star Yao Ming can be seen by both Chinese communists and American citizens in the NBA. Why the difference?
It all comes down to Florida and the critical Cuban American vote. Cuban American exile leadership demands that we punish Castro and Cuba, but meanwhile their community members send money home to support their families. This policy insures the status quo. Money from Miami means Cuba will never get poor enough or engaged enough to begin to change or collapse, and the exile leadership keeps Castro as the main issue allowing them to dominate exile politics.
But let's get to the crux of the issue. If Cuba were to collapse the number one fear of the Bush administration and the Cuban exile leadership is that one million mostly black and brown Cubans would show up at our doorstep in Florida. These people will not look like Ricky Ricardo but more like Haitian boat people, with the caveat of being educated, sophisticated and concerned about racism and inequality.
The current system helps to undo one of the advantages of the revolution  -  the reduction of disparities in income and infant mortality, and an increase in life expectancy and literacy. Cuban blacks have the longest life expectancy of any black population in the world. That is in sharp contrast to pre-revolutionary Cuba where inequality reigned.
That same population of now Miami-based Cubans who governed over black poverty and illiteracy later in Florida also denounced Nelson Mandela as a terrorist and embraced the apartheid regime as heroes for standing up to Castro. An infusion of Black people with different attitudes about politics, religion and everything else under the sun is not something they desire.
These Cubans of African descent will likely challenge the prevailing attitude that casts Cuban Americans as the "model minority" that overcame communism to become the ultimate Hispanic success story, in stark contrast to their darker fellow Latinos --Mexicans, Puerto Ricans and Dominicans. While this perspective ignores the millions in government subsidies given to Cubans to build businesses and commerce in Miami, it plays an important function. It maintains the myth that Cuba is a "white" country and it helps the Republicans make the argument to other Latinos that if they would just vote Republican they too might taste the kind of success that the Cuban American leadership has seen.
So perhaps my opening is misstated. Bush's embargo is designed to keep Afro-Cubans poorer, punish them disproportionately for not overthrowing the Castro regime and most importantly, keep them in Cuba. Thus, the Bush speech was not really about Cuba and the Cuban people at all. The speech was designed to satisfy rabid Castro haters.
A sensible policy to bring "democracy" to Cuba would recognize the progress made by the revolution and create dialogue with American groups of all political stripes. The Bush brand of bringing democracy, fortunately for Cuba, is not as radical or as tragic as his failures in Iraq. But it is equally cynical and yes, in Einstein's definition, perhaps insane. We need a Cuba policy that focuses on the needs of the Cuban people, real change, and recognizes the realities of the world we live in. That, I suppose, is a lot to ask from Bush.
Mark Sawyer is Associate Professor of African American Studies and Political Science at UCLA. He is the author of Racial Politics in Post-Revolutionary Cuba (Cambridge Press, 2006)
Tipping Point: 
Something about wine 

Selecting a good wine, for me, has always been a fairly random matter. The bottle I take home isn't chosen for its year or varietal but rather an intrinsic sense that, for this night, it's the one. The few sensibilities I do have are the result of serendipitous circumstance, though what I've taken away in no way classifies me an oenephile. I know, for example, boxed wine is not suitable for dinner parties and Chianti tastes like piney-leather. Pinot Noir masquerades as a tough guy but is really peppery grape juice, and White Zinfandel is grape juice. Very dry wines may double as window cleaner but are lubricants for intellectual conversation. And after four glasses of anything, none of my convictions hold any water.
I've romanced on becoming a part of the oh-so-educated wine crowd - those who can rattle off a course-by-course list of perfect pairings based on the days produce selection. But, it's all a bit beyond me. That swirling, sniffing and gurgling seems too elaborate an affair for a drowsy buzz. And the adjectives used to describe wine - fruity accents, hints of oak, chocolate? A pretentious show. My wanton aisle wandering has served my wine selection process just fine, thank you. But still I've been curious. Could I be missing out on something? 
With a diverse selection of wines and a most-unpretentious sommelier, I decided to do my own research. I compared my untrained wine impressions to those of Rodney Alex, owner of Juicy Wine Company in Chicago and five-year certified wine expert. I read little about the wines before sampling and based my impressions solely on my immediate experiences. Before pouring, Rodney lined the samplings stylistically from lightest to fullest to give me -- and my taste buds -- a little traction.
We started with a 2006 Riesling from Esterlina Vineyards in northern California. After a color examination, which I'm still unclear on the importance of, and a swirl (to release the scent) I gave the wine a good gargle. Let me here note drinking with a sommelier is at once enlightening and intimidating. After this first wine, it became clear Rodney and I were going to have wildly different experiences and while I didn't want to fake any fruity notes, my tasting abilities were on the line. "This wine is very simple," he said. "I'm getting Maui gold pineapple - a touch of this petroleum thing which is very typical of Riesling. It has this Singer sewing machine oil thing going on. It's not a bad."
Hmmm . . .  Maui pineapple? Petroleum? I got sweet, very close to White Zinfandel without the box. I liked it, but was wondering if I was doing something wrong. How could I get petroleum? That's when I learned the magic of wine is that no one is expected to have the exact same experience. Particular varietals do have defining characteristics - Pinot Noir is plumy, Cabernet Sauvignon is cherry - but along with this, is personal association. For Rodney, all Rieslings taste faintly of petroleum. For me, this Reisling was Zinfandel minus the cardboard.
We moved to a 2005 Chardonnay also from Esterlina vineyards. "It's very complex. It's toasty. The first thing I get is warmth," he said. "There's definitely wood. Maybe a little bit of that fruit cocktail juice.  Smells a bit like canned cream corn."
I got the wood and the Chardonnay was certainly not as sweet as the Riesling but my analysis ended there. Rodney explained Chardonnays differ from Rieslings because their grapes have thicker skins and take longer to ripen on the vine. Because Chardonnay hangs a little longer, the grapes have a higher sugar content leading to a higher alcohol content. (I could get into how this all goes down, but it'skind of a snoozer). Anyway, look for Chardonnay when you want a healthy buzz. I didn't get the cream corn, but at least I was getting an education.
Things didn't change much when we moved to the reds. We looked at a 2004 Cabernet Sauvignon from Black Coyote Vineyards in Napa Valley. Rodney immediately got eucalyptus, bell pepper, dried herbs and black cherry. This wine certainly wasn't as sweet as the whites but I wasn't getting any peppers, maybe (maybe) an herb or two. After a good swish I came away not with eucalyptus but a puckered, sticky mouth. This, I learned, was the result of tannins in the wine, which basically give it its texture (like the finishing spices on a meal). 
We then tried 2005 Zinfandel from the Brown Estate in Napa Valley. "It smells very spicy but in the mouth I'm getting raspberries and black raspberries. There are bright fruit tones coming up over the glass like raspberry sweet tarts." At this point it felt like he was showing off, but I could tell Rodney was sincere. I was exasperated considering my palette seemed to only extend to what was sweet and what was not.
We finished with a Viognier from the Rideau Vineyards in California. "Viognier is an esoteric grape varietal. It's a wine lovers wine. It's a wine growers wine." And, apparently, it was my wine. With that disclaimer I wasn't expecting results, but what came through was sweet (of course) and then citrus like oranges or grapefruit. It was light and juicy, absolutely wonderful. "Anyone can do this, all you have to do is sit and think about the wine," Rodney said. While I don't really know about that, I did take away a few things from this experience.
1. Wine is all about balance between sugars and acidity. A good wine has good balance. It's as simple as that.
2. Rieslings are our friends. They're light but complex making them a great option for your next dinner party (no more White Zinfandels).
3. Select a wine based on what you're going to do with it. Is it a cocktail, or is it going with a specific meal? Find a vendor you trust and ask their recommendations.
4. Don't be afraid to experiment. If one wine is too sweet and the other too tart mix 'em together. Viola.
5. Your experience is your experience. Be it cream corn, petroleum, butterscotch or just plain sweet, nothing is incorrect..
Launch the slide show to get the full experience.
I know next time I'm wandering for wine, I'll have more than my gut to the lead the way.
The Turntable Podcast
Favorite Sounds of 2007

2007 was a good year for Black music. Check out The Turntable as we rundown some of our favorite sounds from 2007. 

Favorite CDs from 2007 
(no particular order)
Finding Forever- Common (recommended tracks: "I Want You" and "Black Maybe")
Kero One Presents: Plug Label- Kero One  (recommended tracks: "Yagotta" and "Summer in the City")
Moon Bossa- Julie Dexter & Khari Simmons  (recommended tracks: "Moon Bossa", "The Dove" and "My Baby Don't Love Me")
Wine & Spirits- Rahsaan Patterson (recommended tracks: "Stop Breaking My Heart" and "Feel Good")

</file>

<file= AmE06_F06>

The Way They Were
Couples often wait to split until the kids are grown. But divorce hurts adult children, too.
I want to scream, cry, bang my head against a wall. Instead, I cradle the phone under my chin so I can answer an e-mail while I listen to Mom. She's yelling so loudly I fear my coworkers can hear.
I interrupt her. "Why can't you try couples therapy?"
Mom says she's been alone in her marriage for years, even before she decided my father needed to move out six months ago. Did I know what he was putting her through? Did I know she changed the locks on the house because my father was showing up when he felt like it?
Head is spinning. Forehead's sweating. Heart is breaking. My voice quivers when I say, "You've been married to Dad for 27 years, Mom. Why are you acting like he's some psychopath?"
Mom says I don't know half of what's gone on between them. "I don't want to know," I interject. I have to remind Mom of this constantly. I don't want to be in the middle.
Nothing tested me more in my adult life than my parents' divorce. I can say that now without feeling embarrassed or weak. For a long time, that's all I felt. I was 26 years old at the time. I had moved out of my childhood home to attend college several years before. I had a great job, close friends, a relationship - all of the things that should make you feel rooted. Yet when my parents announced they were separating, I felt as if the world had collapsed in on me.
There was the realization that home would never be the same. I'd had what I thought was a perfect childhood - Sunday drives to clam bars, picnics on the beach. My parents were the kind who attended every ballet recital and graduation. Of course, Mom and Dad didn't have a perfect marriage. They fought often - but they always made up. When they made it past their 27th wedding anniversary, I assumed they were thinking about retiring, not about splitting up.
My life suddenly seemed a series of "lasts" - a final Christmas, an end to eggs together at the breakfast table. I'd never again find my parents standing side by side on the porch, waving to me as I pulled into the driveway. Looking back, it seemed as if Mom and Dad had been faking it - which cheapened all my childhood memories. How long had they wanted out?
I've come to envy young children going through a divorce. Everyone worries about them. They're sent to psychologists. The adult child's grief isn't taken as seriously. Many of our parents stayed together because we'd be more mature once we headed off to college, walked down the aisle, or had our first baby. Parents expect us to shrug off their split, as if the breakup of our family should no longer concern us because pieces of our adult life are in place. Even I felt I was overreacting. I'm an adult, I figured. I should be able to handle this.
On their own for the first time in 27 years, Mom and Dad needed guidance. My younger sister taught Dad how to cook a red sauce. I told him about an article I'd read about divorcées contracting sexually transmitted diseases - one of our more awkward conversations. Mom expected me to talk negatively about Dad with her. I'd get angry phone calls from her while at work. Ten minutes later the phone would ring, and it would be Dad. They wanted me to hear about every jab and knockout punch they'd exchanged. They wanted to know that I was on their side. So I tried not to say anything at all.
On the stereo in my dad's studio apartment is a photograph of me and my sisters in the same battered silver frame it was in when it was in our living room. It was one of the few things Dad threw into his bag when he left Mom's house a year ago.Dad had wanted me to come over to his new place to show me his Fender Strat, a guitar he had just bought. He doesn't look good. He is rail thin, and his face is drawn. He stopped sleeping through the night after he and Mom separated.
I didn't realize how little alone time I'd spent with my father until the split. Now, when I'm alone with him, I worry we won't have enough to say.
Dad asks if I want to play Scrabble. As we play, Mom's face pops into my head. Mom, with her hair long and blond and pushed back in a headband. Mom, who now wears plunging necklines even when she cleans the kitchen. She and I got into a fight before I left for Dad's this afternoon. All she had to hear was that I was seeing Dad. "What are you going to do," she said, "go over there and badmouth me? You never want to hear it, Brooke, but your father, your perfect father, wants to screw me out of everything." Then she started crying.
Dismantling a family is hardly a linear process, and grieving isn't either. Two summers after my parents separated, I visit home for a week. Mom and I take a drive out on the east end of Long Island where I grew up, stopping at farm stands and antiques shops. We're having a nice day, despite the fact that Dad is still refusing to sign the divorce papers.
On the way home we talk about Mom's recent forays into dating. "It must be strange to be out there again," I say. I'm not sure what I've said wrong, but the comment turns a quiet conversation loud. Mom begins yelling - a new habit since she and Dad split - about how I was never on her side. She says Dad could do anything he wanted and she was persecuted for every decision she made. My blood starts to boil.
And so it goes. After thinking I'd finally reached a plateau of forgiveness, I'm right back to where I started, as angry as I've been time and again in the months before.
Grieving in circles this way keeps you from moving on. You might accept and forgive one aspect of your parents' divorce, but then something else happens - maybe Dad asks you to meet the woman he's dating - and you have an entirely new set of circumstances to deal with.
Dad is giddy when I walk into my aunt Junie's house one evening two years after the split. It has been raining since morning."You look like a drowned rat," Dad says, laughing, as he walks toward me. "Hey, honey." He gives me a bear hug. Out of the corner of my eye, I can see her. She's sitting at Aunt Junie's kitchen table. She's blond and fair. Like me, I think, and for some reason that notion comforts me.
She is around my dad's age - I'd worried that she would be a young tart. "Let me introduce you to my friend," Dad says. Friend?"
Brooke, this is Donna," he says. "Donna, this is my middle daughter, Brooke." We say hello. She smiles.
Only seconds go by before I'm overcome with panic. What do I say next? Instead, I give her a big hug. She doesn't hug me as tightly. Before arriving at Aunt Junie's I imagined either I would immediately hate my father's girlfriend and refuse ever to see her again, or I would love her. As I sit talking to her, I realize Donna lands somewhere in the middle. She is okay. Not extraordinary but not excruciating.
Watching your mother or father date is surreal. An adult child has known her parents only with each other. To see Dad kiss another woman is like watching a scene from my very own version of The Twilight Zone.
Two years into the divorce I still avoid spending time alone with Mom. I can't reminisce about my childhood or say anything about Dad.
On the surface Mom and I act like nothing's wrong. But the anger traded between us during the past few years simmers below the surface. In the car one afternoon, Mom talks about her shirt not fitting right, how she wants to go to Europe this fall. I want her to ask me about my writing or my recent trip to Africa, but she doesn't. Then I make a joke about her brother's teeth, and Mom takes it personally. We start arguing and I say, "I just don't think you're much of a mother to me anymore."
A year earlier I'd promised myself I'd never say things like this to her again. She makes a quick U-turn in the middle of the highway and nearly gets us killed. We're both crying. She's yelling. When we get back home, we settle on opposite sides of the couch.
I am over my parents' divorce, I think. But I guess this isn't about accepting that my parents are no longer together. At some point, I realize, the way Mom acted during the divorce became the real source of my anger.
"This divorce has been the hardest thing I've ever had to do," Mom says calmly. "If I've been wrapped up in myself, I'm sorry. I'm learning how to be alone again."
I'd never heard Mom sound so vulnerable and honest - which makes me listen closely. I tell her I just want her to be happy. Mom moves toward me and stretches out her hand, then pulls it back.
"Sometimes I just don't know how to be around you anymore," she says. "There have been so many times I've wanted to hug you and don't know how."
I felt the same. I used to climb into Mom's bed and we'd talk for hours before Dad came in. Now we share so little intimacy I often look forward to leaving home just so I can hug her goodbye. I move next to Mom and fall into her arms. "I just want to feel like you love me again," I say. She hugs me hard, rocks me, and says, "I'm sorry you ever thought I stopped."
I read once that moving on is the period in which the knot of your grief is untied. After three years I finally let go of my anger toward Mom and was able to move on.
I got married this past summer, and I'd like to believe I'm going to be one of the lucky ones. John and I put off getting married when my parents first split up. It didn't feel right - and it's been work getting me to feel comfortable with marriage since. I've had to train myself to stop comparing my relationship with that of my parents. If John and I get into an argument, it doesn't mean our relationship is doomed.
I've come to terms with my parents' divorce. They're both so much happier now. Mom went to Europe for the first time this past fall. Dad goes to Broadway shows. They're both doing things they never would have done together. I can see now that I knew the muted version of who they were.
Dad recently bought our family home from Mom. He hadn't been in the house since the split. I thought I'd be sad when I saw the empty rooms. Dad had paint cans and drop cloths scattered about. My things - stuffed animals, books, prom dresses - were packed in boxes in the basement.
Several months ago I'd have been in tears. But the sight of Dad futzing around the yard made everything feel right again. Even though I put my parents' divorce behind me, I don't have to completely let go. A piece of me will always be preserved in those walls, in the shadows that dance across my childhood bedroom at dusk.
Brooke Lea Foster is a staff writer for Washingtonian Magazine. This article was adapted from her book, The Way They Were

</file>

<file= AmE06_F07>

YOUR SECOND LIFE IS READY 
Residents of one of the Internet's most populous virtual worlds shop, attend class-even run businesses. Soon you may do the same. 
I'm standing in an airy train station surrounded by rolling, wooded hills. Distant sounds of birds and trickling water reach my ears over a low buzz of chitchat from the people around me. They have come from all over North America to meet here, and now they're lounging on couches and standing in sociable little clots. Ballerinas are talking to men in body armor, while guys in suits show off their dance moves to aliens and ladies with wings. I try not to stare.
Or rather, a digital version of me called an avatar tries not to stare. I'm sitting at my computer, and my point of view hovers about three feet behind as I use the arrow buttons on my keyboard to amble toward the street outside. Next to me, a blue elf and a towering woman in a black cape tap on invisible keyboards that hover in the air. I can hear the click of the keys, and cartoon speech bubbles near their heads reveal that they're discussing computer programming.
"Hi, I'm new here," I type into a box at the bottom of my screen marked "chat." When I "talk," my avatar does the same keyboard-and-bubble routine. "I can tell," says the woman in the cape. I'm wearing the generic outfit-jeans and a T-shirt-given to every new arrival here in Second Life, one of the biggest public virtual-reality spaces ever built online. Like the computer game The Sims, Second Life is software that enables you to guide your avatar through a 3-D landscape, chat with other avatars, and build objects with tools. But SL, as it's known to its 300,000 members, or "residents," isn't a game. It's more like an animated version of real life. There's no way to win and no specific objective.
Launched in 2000, SL counts among its largest backers Amazon.com founder Jeff Bezos and eBay founder Pierre Omidyar. Today a session in SL usually means play: meeting new people (everyone who's logged in is somewhere in the SL landscape), building a rocket, even having sexual liaisons in specially marked adult areas. But increasingly, people are logging on to work, shop, or go to class. Of course, the same thing could have been said about the Web 10 years ago. Like the Web, all but the basic infrastructure in SL is built by the people who populate it. Want a conference room where you can swap blueprints with a team around the world? Create one, and other avatars can come inside. Want to sell your band's music? Build a jukebox, fill it with MP3s, and charge SL residents in Linden dollars (SL's currency) to download them.
Mitchell Kapor, the founder of software pioneer Lotus, was the first outside investor in Linden Labs, the company behind SL. "Second Life is what MySpace wants to be," he says. "People are inventing new uses for it all the time. And the e-commerce aspect of it is going to be huge."
Although no major brick-and-mortars are doing business from within SL yet, they are taking note. The banking giant Wells Fargo built its own branded island inside SL, designed to train young people to be financially responsible. Wal-Mart, American Express and Intel are looking at using SL for their corporate training. And why not? With its natural interactivity and open platform for creation, Second Life, or something like it, may very well be the next generation of the Web. For example, if I was online banking in SL, I wouldn't have to browse through several static screens of text. I could just walk into a virtual bank, stroll up to a teller, and deposit real-life money the newfangled, old-fashioned way: by talking to a person.
But before I do that, I need to learn how to dress myself and get around.
"Have some clothes," the caped woman says, handing me a box. I click on a pair of red pants inside, but something goes wrong and I wind up crashing my new outfit. Just as I'm at my most confused, a guy with a skull for a face walks up and points his finger at me. Lights jump between my body and his hand. "I'm stealing your soul," he explains.
Now I just want to get out of here. I push a button on my screen that says "fly." Instantly, I'm hovering 50 feet above the ground, gazing down on an island that looks like Hawaii populated with characters from Star Trek. I check my (real-life) watch and remember that Ihave business to take care of. I'm meeting SL journalist Wagner James Au, who has spent the past three years documenting the evolution of SL in his blog New World Notes (nwn.blogs.com). Unfortunately, the meeting is in SL, and I have no idea how to get there. Then I see a message at the corner of my screen: Au is offering to teleport me there. I click "yes," the screen goes black, and suddenly I'm standing on a lovely balcony overlooking the sea. Next to me is a man in a white trench coat. "Welcome to my office," Au says. "Let's go buy you some hair."
We teleport to a shopping area called Midnight City, where the skies are dark and buildings glow with neon-lit virtual fashion items for sale. As I browse the goods, occasionally flying a few feet in the air to peek into second-story windows, I realize that the current Web has forced us into a cramped two-dimensional space that doesn't quite capture the way humans naturally think, socialize, and, well, window-shop. Second Life could bring us back to the three dimensions where we belong.
Streaming a New World

A couple weeks later, I'm on my way to the real-life San Francisco offices of Linden Lab, nestled near the Bay at the edge of the city's North Beach district. There are no elves here, but the woman who greets me does have blue hair. Inside, surrounded by tilted glass walls and wide-open workspaces full of toys, it's hard to shake the feeling that I've walked into a weird outpost of virtual reality.
A guy with a giant smile and spiky gray hair who wears a familiar jeans-and-T-shirt combo pops out of his office to say hello. He's Linden Lab's CEO, Philip Rosedale. The resemblance between Linden Lab and SL is no accident, he tells me. He wants both to be social working environments, or what he calls "the perfect spaces for building things."
Seven years ago, Rosedale left an executive position at streaming-audio company RealNetworks to launch a 3-D world where groups of people could gather "to realize their dreams and ideas." At that time, there was a belief in the computer industry that only artists and game designers could create 3-D objects and so there wasn't any point in setting up a virtual world based on the idea that ordinary users would build everything there. What those naysayers hadn't counted on was the explosion in broadband adoption. Faster Internet connections allowed Rosedale and Linden Lab's chief technology officer, Cory Ondrejka, to create a graphics system built on streaming images. That means everything you see in SL is coming to you live from Linden Lab computers. All the intense computational work is done before it reaches your screen, so SL can be ever-changing. This is completely different from most videogames, where everything you can possibly see has been predetermined and pre-drawn and is stored on a CD or cartridge.
Rosedale's other big idea was to offer SL residents easy-to-use building tools to help them create stuff the way one might in programs such as Photoshop and PowerPoint. Rosedale's plan worked, and SL quickly caught on with a broad demographic, not just twentysomething male ber-geeks. Today, there are as many women as men using SL, and the average age is 32.
An SL account is free; Linden Lab makes money selling land, on which users can keep the things they build. With residents building everything themselves, Linden Lab's 100 or so employees are less world-creators than they are world-enablers. They have to maintain an environment that people want to be part of, which means a few ground rules. Residents who engage in harassment or destructive behavior can be kicked out of SL, and civic complaints are aired in regular town-hall meetings with Linden staff (held in SL, of course).
To spur development early on, Linden Lab offered financial incentives in Linden dollars to residents who created areas that became popular destinations. This laid the groundwork for SL's now-thriving economy, which currently has an annual gross domestic product of $64 million (U.S. dollars). Residents buy and sell Linden dollars for real money (Linden takes a small cut of all currency exchanges) and can do a brisk business peddling everything from developed real estate to exotic body parts for residents who don't want to design their own. There are at least 3,000 entrepreneurs making $20,000 or more a year on SL businesses; BusinessWeek devoted a recent cover story to Anshe Chung, who earns hundreds of thousands of (actual) dollars as SL's biggest real-estate mogul.
Residents retain the intellectual-property rights to the things they build, even though the code stays on Linden's servers. Ren Reynolds, a writer and consultant who analyzes virtual worlds, believes the strength of Second Life is that it combines almost limitless creativity with ownership. "It's a hotbed of capitalism without restraint," he says.
The next version of Second Life will be seamlessly integrated with the Web, making it easier for real-world businesses to sell items through SL. For example, a retailer like L.L. Bean could have a "door" to an SL store on its Web site, inviting people to jump from 2-D browsing into a 3-D saunter around, where an avatar with your exact measurements could try on clothes for you. Or a consumer-electronics company could offer in-person technical support from an avatar who had a precise 3-D replica of, say, that new digital camera you couldn't figure out, and could show you which button you needed to push. As the wall between the Web and Second Life grows thinner, having an SL account might become as common as having an e-mail address.
Coffee Dates and Classes

For now, residents use SL mostly as a way of broadening their social lives. If you're accustomed to talking with friends in chat rooms or instant messaging, jumping into SL is like moving from radio to television. Suddenly, your chats are enhanced with body language and atmosphere. Instead of emoticons, your avatar's face displays basic emotions that you can choose from an onscreen menu. There are places to mingle with other residents: in hobby areas, dance clubs and at special in-world events. There's also a thriving singles scene. Some meet for SL coffee dates before taking it into the real world, while others prefer purely virtual flings. (You can buy a naked body for your avatar if you want to try an adventure on the "adult-only" islands.)
Rosedale says the next frontier for SL is work, not play. In the past year, several companies have built replicas of their conference rooms in SL so that far-flung employees can meet and exchange information, and even collaboratively build prototypes of real-world projects. A company called Electric Sheep recently began selling its services as a kind of virtual architecture firm. Corporations and universities pay Electric Sheep to create office buildings in SL for meetings, events and special projects. Working in SL will only become more appealing as graphics become more detailed and SL adds voice chat, eliminating the keyboard-and-bubbles bit.
More than a dozen colleges are also experimenting with SL. At Montana State University, architect Terry Beaubois taught a class from his office in Silicon Valley using SL, flying out (on a real plane) to meet his students in person only every two weeks.

</file>

<file= AmE06_F08>

Which brings us to Andrea Dworkin, perhaps the best-known radical in feminism's back pages. In the public mind, Dworkin was radical because she was extreme, and there's no denying that she made incendiary claims and proposals. But she was also willing to push the idea of gender oppression to its limit, and make sweeping pronouncements that bulldozed a path for more tempered discussion. Her unwavering antiporn stance is also closely allied, within both the feminist movement and the public at large, with the idea of radical feminism, although that in itself is a bone of contention among feminists. (Some contemporary feminists - including the publishers of the storied feminist newsjournal Off Our Backs and the webzine Feminista! - maintain a strict definition of radical feminism as antiporn. Others, however - like Judith Levine, Susie Bright, and Ellen Willis - combine a radical feminist outlook with a sex-radical perspective, although they are more likely to self-identify as sex radicals and feminists, or simply as feminists, than as radical feminists.) 
Derogatory terms: bra-burners,3 libbers, hairy-legged man-haters, feminazis, "radical feminists." 
Antiporn feminism 
Are porn, prostitution, and sex work always and inherently bad for women? For more than two decades, this debate has raged among feminists of all stripes.
Often conﬂated with radical feminism, antiporn feminism grew out of radical feminism in the late '70s and early '80s - as did its counterpart, pro-sex feminism. The feminist porn wars of the '80s are largely forgotten to the general public by now, but at the time they were heated, divisive, and intensely personal. In 1982, Bar-nard College's Center for Research on Women held a conference called "Towards a Politics of Sexuality," which was picketed by antiporn feminists for including explorations of s&m and overall pro-sex viewpoints along with discussions of race and sexuality as well as sexual history (many of which were published in the 1983 anthology Powers of Desire: The Politics of Sexuality). 
Leading the charge on the anti side were Women Against Pornography (a loosely organized group whose supporters at one point or another included Andrea Dworkin, attorney/legal theorist Catharine MacKinnon, Susan Brownmiller, and Gloria Steinem) who rallied behind Robin Morgan's famous declaration that "porn is the theory, rape is the practice," and argued that the misogynist images in pornography were harmful to women and girls. WAP picketed strip clubs and adult video stores in Times Square, while Dworkin and MacKinnon wrote and campaigned for legislation positing that pornography is a violation of women's civil rights (none of which has ever been adopted). They were countered by anticensorship feminists like Ellen Willis, Nadine Strossen, and Carole Vance, who argued that eliminating pornography wouldn't eliminate the rape and battery of women, and that policing sexual desire and prohibiting free expression weren't good for anyone. (See also: pro-sex feminism.) 
Although porn and sexual imagery are even more pervasive in popular culture than they were in the '80s, WAP's legacy can be seen throughout mainstream culture, most clearly in the popular myth that all feminists are against pornography, and even against sex itself. 
Lesbian feminism 
To hear Pat Roberston tell it, "lesbian feminism" is redundant (remember: "Feminism encourages women to leave their husbands, kill their children, practice witchcraft, destroy capitalism, and become lesbians"), but it's a lot more complicated than that. In the early '70s, some feminists asserted that lesbianism was the natural extension of feminism, and that until the patriarchy was overthrown, sleeping with men was tantamount to treason. Other groups, like Ti-Grace Atkinson's The Feminists, instituted membership quotas: Only one-third of members could be married to or living with men. Around the same time, in response to NOW's unfortunate ﬂirtation with homophobia (leaders were concerned about the potential pr fallout from an alleged "lavender menace" within NOW's ranks), lesbian feminists - like Rita Mae Brown, Jill Johnston, Charlotte Bunch, Audre Lorde, and groups like Radicalesbians and the Lavender Menace - not only encouraged activism on behalf of gay women but also developed a body of theory and writings on the interconnections between feminism and female homosexuality. Adrienne Rich's landmark 1980 essay "Compulsory Heterosexuality and Lesbian Existence" helped give shape both to lesbian feminism and to the strain of cultural feminism aligned with women-born-women-only spaces like the Michigan Womyn's Music Festival. 
In the late '80s and '90s, with the rise of queer theory and identity (articulated by folks like Judith Butler, Michel Foucault, and Eve Kosofsky Sedgwick, who argued that sex and gender are socially constructed, not inborn), a newer breed of lesbian feminism (now generally dubbed queer feminism) emerged. This more ﬂuid approach to sexual orientation involves more questioning of gender itself, from the binary gender system to the essentialist feminist notions of female behavior, and has also yielded groundbreaking theoretical work on female masculinity by scholars like Judith Halberstam, Joan Nestle, and Kate Bornstein. 
CULTURAL FEMINISM, a.k.a. ESSENTIALIST FEMINISM, A.K.A. DIFFERENCE FEMINISM 
A commonly held objection to the term "feminism" is that, linguistically, it seems to elevate women over men - a point of view that is reinforced by the cultural/essentialist strains of feminism positing that women are naturally, biologically different (and often better) than men. 
This pro-woman branch of feminism grew out of '70s-era radical feminism, much to the frustration of many radicals, who argued not for the elevation of femalekind but for the obliteration of all socially determined gender roles. The retreat into cultural feminism is understandable, especially for women who had been on the front lines of feminism for years, but its conﬂation with radical feminism has unfortunately obscured the histories of both branches. Today, there's a wide range of expressions of cultural feminism, from the gynocentric spirituality of Mary Daly to Women Who Run with the Wolves - style New Ageism to the women-as-peacemakers exhortations of Code Pink. 
Difference (or essentialist) feminism is the most common contemporary application of cultural feminism, in its scientific grounding of differences between men and women, such as those identified by Carol Gilligan in her classic text, In a Different Voice. Difference feminism holds that women are naturally more maternal and nurturing, hence better parents and more likely to be peacemakers; more moral, hence better social gatekeepers and more ethical politicians or leaders; better communicators; less violent; less competitive; and just generally Venusian. 
Derogatory terms: Antifeminist crusader Christina Hoff Sommers likes the confusing moniker "gender feminism." 
THIRD-WAVE FEMINISM 
When the media takes a moment off from ponderously declaring feminism dead or irrelevant to have a look around at contemporary feminists, all it seems to find are third-wavers: If you're under 40 and you're a feminist, then you're a third-wave feminist - regardless of your politics. 
While the first wave of feminism (the campaign for women's suffrage) spanned some 150 years, the second wave was allotted less than a quarter-century before being declared "over" by the mainstream media, most notably by Time's 1989 cover story (careful readers will note that this one was a full nine years before their even more infamous 1998 "Is Feminism Dead?" cover). Thus, in 1989, when NOW president Patricia Ireland declared that, in response to increasing federal and state restrictions on abortion, a "third wave is coming," she was acknowledging both the effect of the decade-long backlash (soon to be limned by Susan Faludi in her 1991 book of the same name) in dampening the public face of feminism and the growing activism by young, college-age women. In 1992, Rebecca Walker and Shannon Liss formed the Third Wave Direct Action Corporation (which became the Third Wave Foundation) to mobilize young people - especially young women - to become politically active; its commitment to a multiracial, multigender, and multiclass organizing effort is a hallmark of the best of third-wave activism. 
The third-wave moniker has been applied to folks with a huge range of political beliefs, from the in-your-face, punk-rock tactics of riot grrrls to Naomi Wolf's Beauty Myth/Fire with Fire power feminism4to Jennifer Baum-gardner and Amy Richards's feminism-is-for-everybody activism to Bust's (and Bitch's) media-savvy 18-to-34-year-old demographic. From its first utterance, the notion of a third wave has generated controversy and concern that both the media and young women were (and are), in their own ways, ﬂattening the powerful complexities and nuances of second-wave feminism into a man-hating, anti-lipstick stereotype, and setting up a generational antagonism.5 
Today, "third-wave feminism" is often used to describe a kind of companionable, man-friendly, pro-sex, pro - femininity-if-you-want-it feminism that reﬂects the successes of the second wave's struggle for equal footing. Although third-wave feminists are engaged in a wide variety of grassroots political organizing (from voter-registration drives to campaigns to save abortion rights), much of the ink spilled on the third wave from both the mainstream press and feminist anthologies paints a picture of a generation that is more interested in self-determination and individual decisions than in understanding the political impact of them. 
Girlie feminism 
Jennifer Baumgardner and Amy Richards coined this term in their 2000 book Manifesta: Young Women, Feminism, and the Future to describe the pro-femininity line of young feminists, most notably expressed by Bust. The reclamation of makeup and other girly accoutre-ments, and the validation of traditionally female activities like cooking, crafting, and talking about sex, they concluded, is a valid way to express the desire for equality - valuing the inherently female aspects of life, rather than trying to erase them. Unfortunately, the tenets of girlie feminism - that women's work is valuable; that crafts are a powerful link to female history; that sexual experimentation is a potent means of feminist expression - have been easily co-opted by market forces and, in many cases, diluted by the resulting slew of consumer products.
Pro-sex feminism 
The pro-sex line of feminism was born out of the '80s porn wars, in reaction to both the feminist antiporn crusades and the sexual repression of the early Reagan years, and owes its name to a Village Voice article by Ellen Willis titled "Lust Horizons: Is the Women's Movement Pro-Sex?" What began as an exploration of the power politics of sexuality by women like Willis, Gayle Rubin, and Betty Dodson evolved during the '90s into an explicit sex-positive approach to feminism. (In a distinct nod to the complicated identity of radical feminism, some sex-positive feminists also use the term "sex radical" to describe themselves.) Proponents run the gamut from theorists like bell hooks and Patrick Califia to erotica-and-criticism writers like Susie Bright and Rachel Kramer Bussel to performance artists like Annie Sprinkle.
Derogatory terms: "Do-me feminism," coined by Esquire in 1994, in startled response to the supposed emergence of photogenic, unabashedly sexual feminists like Susie Bright, Elizabeth Wurtzel, and Naomi Wolf; sexually suggestive female musicians like Liz Phair and Courtney Love; and professional sex educators like Tristan Taormino and Nina Hartley. Also: "Lipstick feminism." 
I'M NOT A FEMINIST BUT... FEMINISM 
I'm not a feminist, but I support a woman's right to have an abortion. I'm not a feminist, but I believe in equal pay for equal work. I'm not a feminist, but I organized a campaign against sexual harassment at my school. And so it goes, the litany of statements in support of feminist issues, accompanied by the stark disclaimer. A major project of contemporary feminism is encouraging "I'm not...but" feminists to embrace the label whole-heartedly, while also recognizing that in many ways the word is less important than the actions or ethos. 
Postfeminism 
Current readers of the New York Times might not be surprised to learn that as early as 1981 the paper of record was already signaling the death knell of feminism: "Voices from the Post-Feminist Generation" (October 1981) reads a whole lot like "Many Women at Elite Colleges Set Career Path to Motherhood" (September 2005). Postfeminism is the notion that the feminist movement has outlived its usefulness, because, after all, we have a few female Senators, it's illegal to discriminate against women in job hiring, there's a women's pro basketball league, and record numbers of women are attending college.6 Put down your torches, gals, 'cause the struggle is over!
While such sentiments do point to feminism's far-reaching success, they also tend to re-personalize the political by assigning any continuing gender-related struggles to individual circumstances. And that, my friends, isn't good for anybody.

</file>

<file= AmE06_F09>

Thank You, Ms.Thomas
In her mid-80s, fearless White House correspondent Helen Thomas still asks the tough questions about war and peace.
by Ann McFeatters
It was the talk of the blogosphere: As part of Stephen Colbert's eviscerating roast of President Bush at the annual White House Correspondents' Association Dinner in April - wonkish Washington's equivalent of the Oscars - he showed a hilarious video that was supposedly an "audition" for the job of White House press secretary.
His costar in the satiric short: none other than the octogenarian doyenne of White House correspondents, Helen Thomas.
Using actual TV footage of the White House press corps, Colbert (of Comedy Central's Colbert Report) played a putative press secretary at a podium, ridiculing the reporters and avoiding their questions. But when Thomas asks, as she did of President Bush at a March 21 press conference, why we really invaded Iraq, Colbert feigns terror. He runs from the White House with Thomas in slow-but-relentless pursuit, notebook and pen in hand. Inside a parking garage, Colbert presses the emergency intercom to demand help, because "She won't stop asking why we invaded Iraq." The attendant responds, "Why did we invade Iraq?"
Colbert finally escapes and returns to New York City. But there, the be-capped limousine driver turns out to be ... Helen Thomas - who then urges him to "buckle up." 
The video is yet another triumphant, iconic moment in the long, impressive life of the pioneering journalist, who turns 86 on August 4. The first woman to be chief White House correspondent for a major news service (United Press International), Thomas has covered every president from John F. Kennedy to George W. Bush. In 1998, the White House Correspondents' Association named its lifetime achievement award for her. Yet she's no relic - working as an opinion columnist for Hearst Newspapers since 2000, she still has her front-row seat at White House press briefings and still shows up daily. 
She remains as feisty and fearless as ever. In her new book, Watchdogs of Democracy? The Waning Washington Press Corps and How It Has Failed the Public (Scribner), she takes her colleagues to task for not asking the sort of tough questions she does. "I honestly believe," she writes, "that if reporters had put the spotlight on the flaws in the Bush administration's war policies, they could have saved the country the heartache and the losses of American and Iraqi lives." 
Her anti-war, anti-Bush administration views have put her, not surprisingly, in disfavor with the president. In January 2003, she gave a speech at the Society of Professional Journalists' annual awards banquet, in which she offered her regular criticism of his presidency, particularly worrying about his intention to go to war in Iraq. Afterward, a young writer from the Torrance, Calif., Daily Breeze sought her out for an autograph. 
"I was flattered. I preened," says Thomas, sheepishly. "I thought I was talking to my new best friend." The young man asked why she seemed sad. "'I should be,'" she recalls answering. "'I'm covering the worst president in Amerian history.'" 
The White House was not amused. "I have yet to learn not to talk to reporters. I didn't realize he would quote me," she says now. "Suddenly, I was in the wilderness." 
At a presidential press conference two months later, Thomas was not called on for the first time in what reporters believe was more than four decades. She wrote the president to apologize, insisting she did not mean to call him the nation's worst president, and he wrote back to accept. But it wasn't until three years later that she received absolution. 
At the March 21 press conference, Bush first complimented her on her "brilliant" performance at a Gridiron Club dinner - where she sang a song about Hillary Clinton's presidential ambitions while dressed in a Scarlett O'Hara costume à la Carol Burnett (made from green drapes, the dress had a curtain rod running through it). Bush then signaled that he was ready, finally, to take a question from the veteran reporter. 
"You're going to be sorry!" Thomas quipped. Bush retorted, "Well, then, let me take it back." 
He didn't get a chance to. "Every reason given [for war in Iraq], publicly at least, has turned out not to be true," Thomas admonished, then accused Bush of wanting to invade Iraq "from the moment you stepped into the White House." 
"To assume I wanted war is just flat wrong, Helen, in all due respect," Bush responded. "No president wants war. Everything you may have heard is that, but it's just simply not true." 
Several months later, Thomas sits in the unnervingly quiet, decorator-designed conference room of Hearst Newspapers despite her professional stature, she works in a cubicle, not a private office). She wears her trademark black pantsuit and red nail polish, her fingers encircled with rings and bracelets lining her arms, her original black hair long-ago dyed bronze brown. Thinking back on her interaction with the president, she only wishes she had pressed him harder. 
"The president can't even explain why we are in Iraq," she complains. "And now he wants to take on Iran?" 
In her new book - her fourth - she writes that the administration signaled for two years that "it could not be deterred from going to war," and that White House reporters knew it. But she thinks the press was caught up in the administration's overly optimistic assessment that leading Iraq to democracy would be easy. "The president wasn't nailed on why we were invading a country of innocent people who had done nothing to us," she says. 
Thomas, who is of Lebanese heritage, is outraged at the conduct of the war and the cauldron of hatred she argues it has spawned toward the U.S. in the Middle East. Behind the war, she thinks - as do many - is a quest for oil by former oilmen Bush and Vice President Cheney. And she, for one, won't hesitate to keep pounding the administration with questions. 
She has now made it her daily job to buttonhole new press secretary Tony Snow, who appears to take her more seriously than did his predecessors, Ari Fleischer and Scott McClellan. Snow parries amiably with her. Early in his tenure, he remarked on a handsome apple Thomas was holding, so she handed it to him. 
"Whoever thought Helen Thomas would kiss up to me? An apple for the teacher," Snow said as everyone laughed. "Hardly. Hardly," Thomas said hastily, but she, too, smiled broadly. 
"He's very smooth. Very slick," she says of Snow. But she insists this White House remains the most secretive she has covered. 
And she has many to compare it with. After graduation from Wayne State University in Detroit in 1942, the Kentucky-born, Michigan-raised Thomas made covering the White House her life's work, beginning her signature practice of saying, "Thank you, Mr. President," at the end of every press conference until Bush abolished the custom in 2003. 
After her competitor at the Associated Press, Douglas Cornell, retired, they were married in 1971. Their engagement had been announced by First Lady Pat Nixon at a White House party in Cornell's honor. Although he passed away in 1982, Cornell's name still appears on Thomas' phone caller ID. She has lived in the same northwest Washington, D.C., apartment building for years, but she's often on the road, giving speeches or receiving honorary degrees. When addressing students, she presses them to demand honest answers from their public servants. But as intensely provocative as her speeches are, she usually has a ready laugh and kind words for her audiences. 
Reaction to Thomas' questioning of the president has played differently, depending on the arena. One woman sent her dozens of roses for questioning the president's motives to his face. But she also was flooded with "venomous, scatological" emails. Conservative talk-show hosts lambasted her for interrupting the president and riding her hobby horse of war and peace. "Will former White House reporter Helen Thomas ever go away?" cried L. Brent Bozell III, president of the conservative Media Research Center. 
Not a chance. In her new book - which excoriates the press corps as docile and incurious - she argues that reporters never pushed hard enough on administration plans for post-Saddam Hussein Iraq. But she is somewhat hopeful, she says, that the press has since been energized by outrage over the government's inadequate response to Hurricane Katrina and Bush's low poll ratings. She points to more aggressive questioning of the administration's intentions in Iran, and alarm that the United States might find itself in a three-front war. 
"I think Americans have been very worried there could be another preemptive strike," Thomas says. "After all, we went to war in Iraq, which was not a threat to us. Isn't it better to talk than start another war? How does bombing people make us safer?" 
Here's a question for Thomas: After covering nine presidents, does she believe in her heart that Bush will strike Iran? She pauses and slowly shakes her head. No, she says. It would be "such a folly" for the administration to take military action against Iran. "The president has enough on his plate." 
But she vows to continue being in the president's face. "I respect the office of the presidency," she says, "but I never worship at the shrines of our public servants. They owe us the truth. They owe us peace. America should never be a country that starts wars; Iraq has reminded Americans of that. We do not have the right to attack anyone we think is a potential enemy. 
"The Washington press corps has the privilege of asking the president of the United States what he is doing and why," she continues. "We don't go into journalism to be popular. It is our job to seek the truth and put constant pressure on our leaders until we get answers. We threw in the towel after 9/11. But I think - I hope - we're more skeptical now. The press is coming out of its coma."
The Ms. Poll 
Women Lead Anti-War Sentiment 
Ms. wanted to know not just how public sentiment stacks up about the ongoing war in Iraq, but how Americans feel about potential military action against Iran as well. Moreover, we particularly wanted to see whether a gender gap in anti-war attitudes exists. The polling was conducted May 19 through 22, with 1,023 adult respondents. 
Iraq: Pull Out! 
The responses reveal that while men and women share disappointment with the war, they differ in what they think should be done about it. Women are more likely than men to favor withdrawing troops from Iraq immediately or in the next year (55 percent of women, compared to 43 percent of men). In fact, a majority of men would favor taking as long as necessary to get out (39 percent) or increasing the troops (12 percent). 
There is a gender gap for every group in support of troop withdrawal within a year, but it is greatest between moms and dads (65 percent to 46 percent), followed by younger women/younger men (62 percent to 45 percent), Midwestern women/Midwestern men (59 percent to 41 percent), blue-collar women/blue-collar men (58 percent to 41 percent) and older women/older men (49 percent to 40 percent). 
Feminist women particularly stand out in their support for withdrawing troops immediately or in the next year, at 62 percent affirmative. 
Iran: Don't Go In!
Both women and men solidly oppose the U.S. taking preemptive, unilateral military action against Iran, with the largest opposition among women at 67 percent (compared to men's 59 percent). Even among those who support military action, barely 13 percent "strongly" support it. Of women, those who are lower-income, Midwestern or un-married maintain the strongest anti- military stance, closely followed by older, childless, Northeastern and feminist women. 
Instead of a preemptive strike, 48 percent of respondents would prefer that the U.S. negotiate with Iran using the United Nations and other countries to resolve differences on Iran's nuclear program, while 30 percent support international diplomatic sanctions aimed at discouraging Iran from developing nuclear weapons.

</file>

<file= AmE06_F10>

The Naked Truth: A Look at Bared Breasts, Stretch Marks, Sexy Sweat, and More
No matter where we go in life, we convince ourselves that someone else is skinnier, prettier, sexier - or cellulite-free. We rarely realize just how beautiful we are.

Remember the Sex and the City episode when the famous foursome meet at a day spa for some R&R, only to learn that Charlotte (read Health's interview with Sex and the City star Kristin Davis) is unable to shed her towel in the steam room? She's convinced that other women are staring at her thighs. But after her confidence is bolstered by a body-image pep talk from Carrie, Charlotte returns to the spa, nervously unwraps her towel, enters the steam room, and bares all. Just as her anxiety is about to reach a fever pitch, validation comes in the form of another woman's voice: "I'd kill for your breasts."

That woman's envy and Charlotte's own certainty that her thighs don't measure up explain the problem of women's body image perfectly. No matter where we go in life, we convince ourselves that someone else is skinnier, prettier, sexier - or cellulite-free. We rarely realize just how beautiful we are.

I know this because I have witnessed more naked women up close and personal than the average adult male sees in his lifetime. From gazing at gazongas to poring over pedicures, I have immersed myself in the locker room of my gym, scribbling notes, eavesdropping, stealing glances, and, when the situation called for it, just downright staring.

In the locker room, bodily obsessions and emotional vulnerability are reflected in the mirror and on the scale. I've taken note of the insults women hurl at themselves like drunken baseball fans. And I've realized that every body part and every owner has a story to tell and a lesson we can share, from the women with immaculate bodies who change in the bathroom stalls to avoid imagined scrutiny to the heavier women who stroll around naked without a care; from breast implants and mastectomy scars to bellies swollen from pregnancy and bottoms sagging from old age.

The beauty of the breast
When you take a few hours to study real women's breasts (as covertly as possible, mind you - getting caught is about as fun as seeing flashing red-and-blue lights in your rearview mirror), they exhibit a snowflake-like quality. No two pair are alike, and every duo is dazzling. While those that stand at attention signify youth and the promise of a long future, those that swing low bear the signs of infusing life into children, of fighting gravity for decades and, though losing the battle, winning the war. From perky to pendulous, barely A to DD, breasts tell a story.

I consider my upper half my better half. Size 36B, my breasts are perky and ski-sloped, the left one a tad more ample than the right. My areolas are peachy-pink; my nipples an almost exact match to my lips. But I still compare myself to the endless array of breasts I'm exposed to on a daily basis. I can fluctuate easily between wishing I had Debra Messing's barely dipping cleavage to Pamela Anderson's cavernous mountains in a heart-beat, depending on the night, occasion, or weather. We always want what we haven't got.

Instead of forever denouncing your breasts as too big or too small, try to appreciate their distinctiveness: They are a natural, beautiful part of our bodies that all too often get disrespected - or ignored by other women for fear the observer will be thought of as freaky or (gasp!) a lesbian. In my opinion, it's better to be an open, enlightened pseudo-bisexual than inhibited and uneducated. Look ... just don't touch. And remember: Variety is the spice of life. If we were all 34Bs (or 5-foot-5, or redheaded, or had the same exact voice), the world would be a pretty boring place.
Getting steamed up
Wetness of unknown origin freaks me out. So it seems counterintuitive that, unlike Charlotte, I would love the steam room so much. After all, it's just a hot box filled with other people's sweat, their perspiration emanating through their pores, sliding off their skin, and ultimately condensing.

And yet, on some days as I leave work and head to the gym, all I can think about is my post-workout trip to the steam room. How good it will feel as I open the door and that steamy blast of 100-plus-degree air hits my face, instantly curling the hairs around my forehead and making me squint.

I had the privilege of introducing my dear friend Diane to the steam room. She had never really considered it, for both trichological and psychological reasons (she has a touch of claustrophobia). But she adored it. "I love that feeling of sweating," Diane says. "It feels cleansing. It feels like you're doing something good for yourself. You kind of get addicted."

At first, Diane used three towels: one wrapped around her hair, one around her body, and one to lie down on. But as she's grown more at ease, she's come to recognize that steam roomies aren't there to judge. Nobody cares and, besides, who can see through all that steam? "There's large, small, skinny, fat," Diane says. "You realize nobody's looking at you, and you're like, 'Why am I leaving early because I'm uncomfortably hot when I could stay later and just take my towel off?'" So she'll take it off and maybe lay it across her lap, napkin-like, for propriety's sake.

Much like wearing all black or having a nice faux tan, glistening with steam-room sweat does wonders for a woman's body. You seem slimmer, and your muscles are highlighted in all the right places. Face it: You just look sexy.

Pride & pregnancy
One morning as I was dressing to work out, I noticed a gaggle of bobbing bellies assembling in the locker room. I ditched my elliptical-machine plans and followed the group down to a studio. Ooh - Pilates for preggers! These women were delighted to share their stories, explaining pregnancy's true impact on body image. But when I heard somebody shout sarcastically from the corner, "The truth? They can't handle the truth!" I knew the truth might hurt.

As it turns out, pregnancy can kick up a wide array of body-image-related responses, from self-loving to self-loathing. I have seen women lovingly massage cocoa butter into their burgeoning bellies, dreamy smiles spread wide across their faces. I've also seen treadmill queens smear the thick lotion across their stomachs as they point out the most minute of markings to their friends, complaining about what "this baby" is already doing to their bodies.

It doesn't take a psychology degree to see that for women with body-image issues, pregnancy can be a state fraught with concern. To wit: A New York magazine cover story, "The Perfect Pregnancy," focused on women battling the psychological effects of weight gain during pregnancy. The story outed women who spoke of actually wishing for more morning sickness, or of ladies who wore their low maternal weight gain like a Girl Scout badge. And in a society in which maternity mannequins cry out for a pepperoni pizza, in which magazine ads scream, "Motherhood ... It's hot!" and actresses pose for Playboy as their newborns snooze off-camera, can we blame them?

But for just as many women, pregnancy can be a respite from and sometimes the closest thing to a cure for body-image concerns. Some view it as a time to finally let down their guard and succumb to their cravings - and to give their hardworking bodies a bit of respect. I've-been-there-too smiles from other women in the locker room can go a long way toward easing weight-gain worries. And that sense of camaraderie sometimes sends a woman with baby on board off to the showers, flashing some extra tummy along with her pride.

Wisdom at last
I often hear women complain about the old ladies in my gym who walk around completely naked with their boobs down by their waists and their stomachs hanging out. My peers say they don't want to see that. Well, guess what, baby: Like it or not, you're looking into a powerful mirror. So I'll take the wrinkles, and the wisdom, any day.

Older women, in my experience, tend to shed their self-consciousness with age. I try to let their freedom rub off on me, or at least sink in via osmosis. Like caterpillars having spent their fair share of time working away in the cocoon of life, going through so many experiences and transitions, these mature women have finally emerged, comfortable and confident. Why shouldn't they be? They have given birth and survived disease. Often they have outlived husbands and, in some cases, children. They have fought for equal rights in work and education. These women have accumulated more wisdom than we have in our entire body-image-obsessed, toned-to-the-hilt selves. Typically, they have boatloads to offer us in the way of lessons of self-acceptance. Contrary to popular thought, they are the butterflies of the locker room - not the young ladies flitting about in their low-slung gym shorts and shrunken baby tees.

This is not to say that all older women in the locker room are wrinkled and drooping. Some have great genes, some never had children, some had plastic surgery or Botox. And some just work their butts off, plain and simple, to win the war against gravity. In any case, I have never seen a woman over the age of 60 scurry off into a bathroom stall to change or quickly scan the room before dropping her towel and pulling on her underwear - be it granny-style or G-string. There's no need. These women are beautiful just as they are. And they know it.

Love That Workout! willPower and grace

A program that begins with a dance/yoga warm-up of stretches and moves to a cardio boot camp-style workout.

Our rating: 4 hearts

The workout: The program begins with a dance/yoga warm-up of stretches and strength-building postures. Then it moves to a cardio boot camp-style workout based on squats and lunges, with balance poses that incorporate arm movements for added intensity. And it ends with slow stretches as a cool-down. You're kept moving on bare feet throughout the entire 60 minutes.

The claim: The class offers a mix of high-energy dance and simple-but-challenging strength moves and stretches that are supposed to improve your functional strength and balance so you'll move better and more confidently through your day.

Reality check: The combo worked for our tester, who says the emphasis on balance "fundamentally changed the way I carry myself." She notices more power in every step she takes. The moves weren't hard to learn, she says, but they certainly made her (and everyone else in the class, including the instructor) sweat. And, as everyone tried to hold difficult balancing postures, the camaraderie was very motivating.

Expert take: This is a solid cardio workout. Plus, the emphasis on doing moves while barefoot is a good way to improve balance and body awareness.

Is it love? It is. Our tester has fallen head over heels for this sound, sweaty routine.

The bottom line: If you're as interested in having your body feel and work better in your daily life as you are in toning up, this could be a good fit.

Shimmy Into Shape: Burn Calories With Belly Dancing

Fitness belly dancing is worth a try, especially if your workout routine needs a little shaking up.

Belly dancing classes have long been staples at community centers, but they've recently begun to shake their way into the mainstream. Major health club chains like Crunch, New York Health & Racquet, and 24-Hour Fitness now offer their own versions, giving the Middle Eastern dance a fitness twist.

The classes still embrace the "love your body no matter what" mind-set and celebration of femininity typical of traditional classes. They're also still set to Arabic music (some dancers even wear silky hip-wraps embellished with dangling gold coins, though they're not required).

</file>

<file= AmE06_F11>

Ask Rosalind
Q. A neighbor told me she saw my 16-year-old daughter smoking. My daughter denies it. Now I'm not sure who to believe.
A. Who has more incentive to lie in this situation? Your neighbor, who has overcome a major (though unspoken) rule that you don't interfere with other people's children, or your daughter, who has every reason to deny doing anything she knows you won't like? After your daughter has looked you in the eye and denied it, tell her, "Well either way I'm going to take this opportunity to be clear about my rules regarding smoking." Wait until she finishes rolling her eyes and sighing, and begin.
Q. I've been divorced for five years. My ex always gets the kids for Thanksgiving; I have them for Christmas. My 15-year-old son just told me that this year he wants to spend both holidays with his dad. I really want him with me at Christmas, but I don't want him to be resentful. Is there a way for everyone to have a happy holiday?
A. While hearing that from your son must have felt awful, you need to quiet your mind and ask yourself about his possible motivations. His reason may be as superficial as wanting to go to the house where he gets the most freedom or as simple as needing more time with his dad. Tell your son that while you're hurt, you want to discuss it. Agree on a time, and ask him to prepare his reasons -- "I don't know, I just want to" isn't good enough. If he isn't comfortable talking face-to-face, then he can write you a letter first. The most important thing is to overcome your feelings of rejection so you and your son can have a thoughtful and productive discussion.
Q. Two years ago we moved to a new neighborhood, and I still feel like an outsider. The moms here are very cliquish. How can I break in?
A. Parent cliques can be as bad, if not worse, than 7th-grade-girl cliques. Stop regarding them as a group and see if there's one member who seems genuine. Approach her by asking for advice, perhaps about a volunteer activity or an event at school, and go from there. Keep in mind that you don't have to break into any cliques -- that's why you graduated from high school -- and neither do your kids. This is the lesson you want your kids to learn.
Q. My mother-in-law sends out an annual holiday letter that mentions all of her grandchildren -- except my adopted son, who is developmentally delayed. He hasn't noticed yet but eventually he will. Is it okay to say something to her?
A. Of course someone should say something. What about your husband stepping up to the plate? Regardless of who does it, prepare before you speak to her so your resentment and desire to defend your son don't sabotage your ability to communicate effectively. Even though it's hard not to assume the worst, she could be excluding him because she's so uncomfortable about his disability she doesn't know what to write. Or she could be embarrassed to admit he's part of your family.
Either way, when you talk to her, be kind but direct. Tell her what you've noticed, that it's hurtful to you and harmful to her grandson, and could create problems between him and his cousins. Offer to help her write something about your son in her letter. If she says no, at least you've respectfully communicated your position.
Q. My son, a senior, nearly makes himself sick doing the weekly five-page paper required in his AP history class, on top of pages and pages of reading every night. Should I speak with his teacher?
A. Your son (not you) needs to decide whether this class is a good fit. I know -- he's smart and you want him to have the best classes, not to mention early college credits -- but this attitude can contribute to his being hyperanxious. Your role is to help your son reevaluate his priorities. If he wants to stay in the class, he should talk to his teacher about how to manage the coursework. He should also decide whether he has too many outside responsibilities. Remember, choosing to take a less demanding history course or cut out an after-school activity doesn't make your son a failure! On the contrary, it will allow him to focus more energy on the commitments that mean the most to him.
Q. I got my 17-year-old daughter a job at my friend's store. She often goes in late, fakes sick days, and has a bad attitude. How do I get her to shape up?
A. Sit down with your daughter, tell her you love her, then explain precisely what she did that was irresponsible. Let her know that in addition to returning to work with a better attitude, she has to apologize to your friend, being very specific about what she did that was unacceptable. She can't just mumble "I'm sorry" and run out the door. Phone your friend, tell her your daughter is coming by to apologize and ask her to call you after your daughter leaves so you know she went through with it. When your daughter gets home, spend a moment alone with her and tell her how proud you are.
Q. My daughter says she has a boyfriend. How should I respond? She's only 12!
A. Without freaking out, ask your daughter what having a boyfriend means to her, keeping your questions positive so she'll feel more comfortable sharing with you. Did they meet at school? How did she know she liked him? When did she find out he liked her? While you have the right to tell her she can't have a boyfriend at 12, remember that "couples" this age are mostly too scared to talk to each other without their friends around. Regardless, tell her your expectations for how a boy should treat her, and that you are always there to talk. Also, encourage her to confide in her dad or another trusted male. Start teaching her that she deserves to be treated with respect, always.
Q. My daughter is 11, my son is almost 8. At what age can I leave her in charge for a few hours in the evening?
A. It depends on the child, of course, but 11 or 12 seems to me to be a good age to start babysitting a sibling. Assess your daughter's readiness: Do you trust her common sense? Can she think clearly (enough) under pressure? Can she remember important information (like the name of at least one neighborhood adult)? Can she handle simple first aid and figure out when to dial 911? Is your son likely to be cooperative? If you decide she can handle it -- as you would do for any babysitter -- leave clearly posted contact info for you and several other adults nearby, as well as for poison control. Some states have adopted "Home Alone" laws, which set standards for when kids can be left alone and for how long. To learn more, visit http://nccic.org/poptopics/homealone.html.
Q. My 15-year-old son's friends are all allowed to go to concerts by themselves, which I'm not comfortable with. What should I do?
A. Since someone has to provide the transportation, you (or another responsible adult) should go with them -- and stay. Either read a book in the parking lot or sit in the audience two rows up and a little over. You'll be close enough to keep an eye on them but far enough away so you aren't completely embarrassing. Well before the event make a plan with every parent and child about when and where you'll meet the kids after the concert and the protocol if someone doesn't show up. Although I'm not a huge fan of kids having their own cell phones, in this situation they should have one, and you should have their numbers. If someone doesn't appear within 10 minutes of the agreed-upon time, call him. If he hasn't shown up within 20 minutes, contact his parents.
Q. My daughter has always been a good student. But it's several weeks into her first year of high school, and she doesn't seem to be making a smooth transition. She says none of her close friends go to her school, she hates the teachers, and she's drowning in work. How can I help?
A. Next time she brings up problems, stop what you're doing (no multitasking in this situation) and say, "I'm so sorry. Let's come up with some ideas to help you feel better." Then look for simple, manageable ways she can make some changes. Have her identify one adult at school she can build a relationship with and also a peer in one of her classes. Or is there a club she's interested in? If things don't improve in another month and she continues to dread school, uses being sick as a way to avoid it, or can't concentrate, ask her guidance counselor for help. You may also want to ask for the name of a therapist.
Q. The list of activities the PTA needs volunteers for is overwhelming. I want to be involved, but I have so little time. What do you advise?
A. I know exactly how you feel. Remind yourself that children want mothers who are strong, calm, and comforting, not someone who's running around hyper and anxious because she can't say no to the PTA. If you still want to volunteer, each semester ask your child's teacher, counselor, coach, or administrator if there is something you can help with in the school for one morning or afternoon.
Q. My 16-year-old son has found his first love. He spends all his free time with her, then is on the phone at least a couple hours at night, and that's not counting the IMing and text messaging. Is this relationship too intense?
A. A teenager's first love is a powerful experience, but it's not an excuse to abandon his responsibilities. Set rules about phone and computer use and enforce them. Hover until he hangs up or signs off and review his cell account online to confirm when and for how long he's communicating.
But it's not all about rules. Ask him why he likes her (watch your tone so you don't sound like an interrogator). Then tell him your non-negotiables, including respect (no name calling when they argue) and maintaining relationships with his other friends and his family. Lastly, go over your expectations and values about sex. If he doesn't feel comfortable talking to you, find another adult to speak with him -- someone he thinks is cool and who shares your values.
Q. My 14-year-old daughter calls me her best friend. While I like it, I'm concerned she's depending on me too much. How do I encourage her to have her own pals?
A. First off, could you be jumping to conclusions? Parents often worry that their children are having problems when they don't have a large group of friends. Some kids are social butterflies, but others are more comfortable being close to just a few people -- and those friendships are usually really strong. If your daughter has only a few friends and she feels good around those people, don't worry about it. If she has no friends, involve her in activities outside of school -- art lessons, for example -- so she can have relationships with other people and isn't totally dependent on you.
Q. I feel like I live in the local teen center -- my 16-year-old son and his friends hang out in my house day and night. I'm glad they're comfortable with us -- and I like knowing where my son is. But sometimes it's too much. What should I do?
A. This is one of those "be careful what you wish for" situations.

</file>

<file= AmE06_F12>

Society
Raiding the Past: What Future for Antiquities? 
by Lane Jennings
Who has the right to own, display, or sell historic objects? 
It's an old story, and a sad one. In humanity's mad rush to build a proud future and make the present more secure, many grand achievements of the past are tossed aside, left to disappear forever. History is full of cases where pillagers and vandals tear down or carry off the monuments of a defenseless or undervalued past. 
Not only do conquering armies seek plunder, but so do individuals. Ordinary people, struggling to survive in poverty near sites where powerful and wealthy peoples once flourished, treat the relics of past glories as raw material for new construction, or simply a potential source of cash. 
Serious efforts to protect ancient monuments and to collect and preserve artifacts for careful study effectively began in 1798 when Napoleon Bonaparte brought a team of scientists along with his army invading Egypt. Over the next two centuries, U.S. and European governments, universities, museums, and wealthy collectors financed many expeditions to discover, record, and acquire (sometimes for money, sometimes by force) ancient objects, human remains, works of art, and even entire buildings. 
Today, it is easy to dismiss such "fieldwork" as simply acts of arrogance toward peoples too poor or too weak to resist effectively. Certainly many governments, museums, and research institutes have changed their policies. And some have now begun restoring certain items and apologizing for past actions. But there is another side to this kind of looting. 
The foreign institutions and collectors who are accused of stealing many ancient objects often saved them from destruction or slow decay. And the true significance of many sites and artifacts might never have been known without the careful handling and study they received from Western experts. 
Respect for local heritage has spread and deepened as more nations have gained independence and a sense of common identity. Yet, even today, wherever ancient peoples once lived, worked, and buried their dead, individuals and organized bands are digging for objects to carry off and sell. In the process, they may obscure or completely erase the history of the objects they uncover. 
Now and then a treasure hoard of precious metal objects or a large statue may be uncovered by professional archaeologists in the field or offered at auction. But most of the antiquities trade today involves individuals of relatively modest means who simply want a small piece of the past to show off and admire. 
Through online sites and mail order catalogs, art and antiquities dealers offer everything from Egyptian mummy beads to Roman coins, from Mayan pottery to African masks. Serious collectors and casual shoppers alike can buy an ancient Greek wine jar or an Etruscan vase as easily as any modern painting or print. Past efforts to stop looting have included guarding important sites, banning the sale or export of ancient artifacts and major works of art, and using customs authorities and police to check that buyers, sellers, and collectors all display reliable documentation to prove they are not in possession of stolen goods. 
But none of these measures has been fully effective. As art and cultural reporter Roger Atwood states in his recent book, Stealing History, "The biggest obstacle to stopping the looting of the ancient world is overcoming the feeling that it is inevitable . . . [that] as long as there are rich buyers, there will always be poor looters willing to supply them." 
Given the present rate of worldwide looting, Atwood calculates that, within decades, only a handful of tourist-thronged, highly publicized, and heavily protected ancient sites will remain. "The day is not far off," he warns, "when an archaeologist can go through an entire career without seeing a single unpillaged site." 
To avoid this future, Atwood urges coordinated action by international agencies, national governments, professionals in the antiquities trade, museums, and private collectors. His specific recommendations include: 
•A five-year global ban on the sale of any antiquity not clearly proven to have been legally obtained before 1970 or officially licensed for export from its country of origin. 
•The indefinite suspension of all trade in undocumented objects made of gold and silver. 
•Emergency import restrictions by the U.S. Congress to prevent wholesale looting of antiquities from countries in turmoil. 
Atwood argues that such efforts would be made more effective if museums and governments in antiquities-rich countries would agree to "surplus" some of the interesting but relatively common items they often hold in permanent storage. Selling some of these items - fully documented - to dealers and collectors could help fund local archaeology and preservation work. It would also effectively set a new world standard for legal documentation in the antiquities trade. Too often, blanket laws preventing any work of art or ancient object from ever leaving its country of origin simply encourage looting, smuggling, and black-market dealing. 
Still another way of preserving artifacts for future generations suggests itself: To safely satisfy those people who buy antiquities primarily as decorative objects, some museum stores and galleries already sell licensed reproductions. This approach could be expanded so that modern crafts workers would be trained to recreate ancient artifacts, even using traditional methods and materials. This would not only supply more beautiful and useful objects of ancient design, but also revive the practical skills and ingenuity of ancient artists. 
And why does any of this matter? Perhaps because the true significance of past events and cultures cannot easily be grasped if all we have to make them real to us are words and images - nothing to touch or feel. After all, look how hard it is for many people to think seriously about the future, which no one can see or touch. 
Homosexual Relationships
by Cynthia G. Wagner 
Institutional support might bring more-stable relationships among gays. 
Conflicts come to most couples, over most of the same things: Whose turn is it to clean the tub? How much was spent on that new jacket? Whose family should we spend the holidays with? And couples sometimes break up.
As society looks to the question of allowing same-sex marriages (or banning them), more research is being done on the nature and quality of gay and lesbian relationships, and whether they differ from heterosexual relationships. Researchers hope to learn how to predict the success of relationships and how to improve them, enhancing the quality of people's lives. Researchers also want a better understanding of the differences that are often cited to support different treatment of homosexuals under the law. 
Do gay and lesbian couples have as good a chance at maintaining stable and satisfying unions over the long term as do heterosexuals? So far, psychological research on homosexual relationships has been too scant to provide clear answers to such questions, but some conclusions may be drawn, according to Lawrence A. Kurdek of Wright State University. 
From his meta-analysis of studies that have been made of gay and lesbian couples, Kurdek suggests that there may be more similarities than differences between homosexual and heterosexual relationships. The issues that matter to a couple are often the same, such as division of household chores, sources of conflict and satisfaction, and the need for a supportive social network (family and/or friends). And the factors that will predict the success or failure of the relationship are also similar: personality traits, level of trust and respect, and ability to communicate and resolve conflicts. 
"Although members of gay and lesbian couples do not divide household labor in a perfectly equal manner, they are more likely than members of heterosexual couples to negotiate a balance between achieving a fair distribution of household labor and accommodating the different interests, skills, and work schedules of particular partners," Kurdek notes. 
Conflict resolution may also be more effective among homosexual partners. Whether due to biology or acculturation, men and women tend to perceive the world differently, creating a source of conflict that does not affect a same-sex couple. Kurdek cites studies showing that gay and lesbian partners tend to begin discussing their problems with a more positive attitude than do heterosexual couples, and they develop more possible solutions and compromises in the course of the discussion. 
Despite this more-civil approach to resolving problems, homosexual relationships are more likely to dissolve than heterosexual relationships, Kurdek notes. In studies of married heterosexual, cohabiting heterosexual, gay, and lesbian couples, the least likely to have dissolved their relationship after 18 months were married couples (4%); the most likely were lesbian couples (18%). 
Because the dissolution rates were roughly similar for all couples who cohabited, whether gay or straight, and were consistently higher than for married heterosexual couples, Kurdek believes that it is the institution of marriage itself that may help keep the relationships intact over time. A study in Norway and Sweden found that state-sanctioned unions for gays and lesbians did reduce the break-up rates for couples, though they were still higher than for married heterosexuals. 
Marriage (or other legally sanctioned union) has a positive influence on relationship outcomes, both because it is a culturally supported institution and because it simply makes breaking up harder to do, says Kurdek. Without the backing of society and their own social networks (supportive family and friends), gay and lesbian couples have an uphill battle in maintaining their relationships. 
The Nanotech Gold Rush
by Patrick Tucker
A technology researcher outlines the future of molecular engineering. 
Though still a largely unexplored area of science, nanotechnology, or the manipulation of objects less than one-billionth of one meter in size, has already infected the popular consciousness. The result: curiosity, suspicion, and irrational exuberance. 
According to David M. Berube, author of Nano-Hype, some of the most fantastic depictions of nanotechnology in popular culture - such as swarms of killer nanobots and mind manipulation through microscopic machinery - belie the technology's real near-term applications. These include the construction of stronger, more-versatile materials. 
"It is abundantly clear that the applications of nanotechnology will likely be both numerous and far-reaching," Berube writes, "but don't expect a nano-industry per se to develop. Nanotechnology enables products of another industry to be improved or enhanced." 
By 2015, the market for nanostructured materials will reach $340 billion. For electronics and information related equipment it will reach $600 billion, and for nanopharmaceuticals, $180 billion, Berube's research suggests. He sees nanotechnologies working their way into a broad constellation of products with commercial applications falling into the following six categories: 
• Manufacturing and materials. These will make up "the single largest application of nanotechnology." Berube describes a number of companies at the forefront of this research and development, such as QuantumSphere Inc., a leading manufacturer of metallic nanopowders used in fuel cells, hydrogen generation cells, and air-breathing systems. 
A Drexel and TRI/Princeton team is also working in materials R&D. They've developed a method for filling single-walled carbon nanotubes with polar and nonpolar liquids. According to the team, this produced "magnetic nanostructures with applications in memory devices and wearable electronics." 
A recent NanoSonic project has resulted in a new material that the company describes as "metallic rubber, which flexes and stretches like rubber but conducts electricity like a solid metal." 
• Food and agriculture. A number of large food conglomerates, such as Denmark's Friesland Foods, are investing heavily in nanoscience. Friesland is researching ways to control flavor release and component breakdown in cheese. Meanwhile, researchers at the Norwegian Institute of Technology are experimenting with ways to improve the shelf life of food by incorporating nanoparticles into food packaging. 
• Electronics and computing. Carbon nanotubes could provide nonvolatile, high-speed, high- density memory that both is resistant to radiation and uses relatively little power. Success in this area could provide for better multiplatform computing and drastically increased capability, particularly for future generations of handheld devices. According to the NanoMarkets newsletter, "The market for nano-enabled electronics will reach $10.8 billion in 2007 and $82.5 billion in 2011." 
• Health care. "Demand for nanotechnology health-care products in the United States will increase nearly 50% per year, reaching $6.5 billion in 2009," according to the Freedonia Group.

</file>

<file= AmE06_F13>

It takes a village... 
MadCity Chickens political movement works to get a poultry ordinance passed 

 
Mad City Chickens is a group of pro-poultry folks in Madison, Wisconsin who worked to make keeping chickens in their city legal and who now strive to educate and encourage homeowners to keep feathered friends in their backyards. 
Prior to May 2004, chickens were not forbidden in Madison, but construction of a coop to house them was illegal. Yet there were enlightened people living in Madison, keeping chickens hidden on their properties, reveling in the self-sufficiency and pleasure chicken-keeping brought and frustrated that these innocuous creatures could not be legally kept. They were the Chicken Underground and initiated the political movement that brought the right of chicken ownership to residents of Madison. 
They petitioned (then) Alderperson Matt Sloan to change the Madison Ordinance to allow a few chickens in backyards. The political climate was right and Matt drew up a set of rules based on those of other cities like Seattle and Portland that had allowed backyard chickens for years. 
In the meantime, two (of the many) key people in the movement, Alicia Rheal and Bryan Whiting, spearheaded a campaign to gather public views and support for a pro-chicken and coop policy for Madison. They wrote articles for the neighborhood newspaper. Soon other articles were written about the chicken movement in Madison and Milwaukee papers, and they were interviewed on a local television station. Doctor Mark Cook of the UW-Madison Poultry Science Department wrote Matt Sloan a letter of support for the idea and neighbors wrote letters to their representatives. It was six months of non-stop chicken awareness, education and promotion, until the final passing of the Ordinance on May 5, 2004. 
The particulars of the Ordinance are:
•Up to four domestic fowl allowed per single-family dwelling,
•No roosters,
•No slaughtering,
•Poultry shall be kept within a secure enclosure and not allowed to run free,
•Enclosures shall be located no closer than 25' from nearest neighbor's residence and
•A $6 permit is required (per household), to be renewed annually.
The group renamed itself Mad City Chickens, put madcitychickens.com on the Internet and, in June 2004, started holding chicken keeping classes: City Chickens 101 and Chicken Coops 102. There have since been eight CC101 courses and one CC102 taught, with between 8-12 people in each class. The interest is very high, with people being turned away for a Willy Street Coop chicken class after 60 people registered. The first Mad City Chickens potluck was held in January 2005 and a coop tour was organized for June. 
I advertise for the group every Sunday at the Northside Farmers Market and at the Food For Thought Festival on the Square. The number of Madisonians now keeping chickens is growing in leaps and bounds. 
But who can resist? A small, inexpensive, easy-keeping pet that lives outside all year long, produces food, is very personable, aesthetically unique and comes in so many varieties that you don't have to have just what your neighbor has. I don't know how it can get much better than this.
Don't Become a Nuisance
Every animal has characteristic odors associated with its body processes. They range from bad breath to body odors to manure odors. The effect of these odors is multiplied by large numbers of animals, but it is also increased by the support systems we use. These might include inadequate ventilation, improper drainage, poorly designed water systems, decomposition of manure before it is removed, spilled feed and so forth. 
These things are all under the caretaker's control and they take place beyond the animal itself. They often combine with the normal animal odors to create a condition to which some people object. 
Generally speaking, people who keep livestock and poultry accept some of the odors that go along with such production. Most people, however, are no longer familiar with animal odors on a daily basis. It must also be recognized that any given odor affects different people in different ways. Often this is conditioned by something else we associate with that odor, often a personal experience that was less than desirable. 
Managing the odors from poultry so they do not become an intolerable nuisance to others is an obligation of the producer. 
Zoning, the right to use one's land as he or she sees fit, the necessity for food production and being there first are all strong points in conversation. But they do not always stand up in court. Being declared a nuisance in spite of these things can result in being closed down by order of the courts. 
It's an absolute necessity to keep odors from your place below an objectionable level. That level will vary with communities and individuals, but it will always be conditioned by what they think of you as a person. 
Projecting a good image is a must. A neat, orderly farmstead with attention paid to details and a considerate attitude toward others is essential. These things must be coupled with good management of carefully designed facilities. 
Give this some thought as it is an important part of raising poultry. 

A Poultry Community Needs Supplies 
 
Whenever exciting changes happen in a community, such as Madison's poultry ordinance, there are usually business opportunities that come with it. Two active members of the Mad City Chickens group share information with us regarding the business opportunities they see. 
For Cherrie Nolden, this opportunity allows her to provide a needed service, share her knowledge, and do something she loves. 
Cherrie got into Mad City Chickens (MCC) as a community service project but knows that she can also offer other services to those searching for poultry information. 
Cherrie and her husband, Lee, have lived on their 10-acre farmette, Prairie Paradise Farms, LLC near Stoughton, Wisconsin for about four years. (Stoughton is about eight miles south of Madison.) 
She is a currently a graduate student in wildlife ecology at UW-Madison but also works to encourage people to understand the origin of their food, increase their personal security by learning to raise their own food, and to simply spend more time outside in a tv/computer-free environment while connecting with their neighbors. 
Cherrie feels that backyard chickens provide the kernel to nourish all of this and do so better than any other backyard activity she has previously encountered. Chickens provide the flavor of farm life that so many city-bound people yearn for, without the expense of buying a farm. 
As a graduate student, Cherrie is paid a stipend for a half-time research appointment and puts in well over 40 hours per week; usually 50-60. Lee is a full-time farmer and certified independent crop consultant. 
Cherrie and her husband are working to make city folks' desire to keep chickens into a viable business for their farmette. They raise the breeds people want, and folks can get them in small batches (Madison's ordinance allows four birds per single-family dwelling) rather than having to order 25 birds, the minimum most hatcheries require. Cherrie says, "Buyers are willing to pay a slightly higher price than the hatcheries charge for the convenience of only having to purchase the smaller quantity." Cherrie throws in some additional benefits for the customer. "I offer free advice and consulting on any chicken questions they may have. We also replace and rehome any birds that grow up to be roosters (not allowed in town) for those who are uneasy about making their roosters into roasts," explains Cherrie. 
Cherrie got into Mad City Chickens as a community service activity that followed her interests in poultry and she continues to do most of her work with the group with this motive in mind. But, when people ask her where they can buy chickens, she tells them about her farm as one of the options. Cherrie is a local and county-wide 4-H leader and is helping MCC form a 4-H club in downtown Madison so the kids in the families with chickens can experience the record-keeping and youth development opportunities that 4-H membership affords, while being able to win ribbons, trophies and premiums by entering their chickens in the local fairs. 
The products
Prairie Paradise Farms, LLC sells processed chickens, free-range eggs (duck and chicken) and garlic at a farmers market Cherrie helped start in Madison. They are not allowed to have the live chickens at the market so they give out free information on keeping chickens in the backyard and encourage people to stop out at the farm to pick out their birds. 
Products on the farm include straight run and some sexed chicks, pullets and hens depending on the desires of the customer. If Cherrie is wrong on the sex of the chick, they are replaced at no charge when it shows that it is a cockerel. She also takes any extra birds people may have and helps them find homes. Cherrie says, "I give a farm tour to anybody who sets up an appointment and explain what we are doing. Besides the chickens, they raise grass-fed beef and sheep, grow garlic organically, breed, train and sell registered Norwegian Fjord horses and raise geese and ducks to weed and de-bug the gardens. They offer any of their animals to 4-H members for their projects. 
Visitors see the living conditions the animals enjoy and get a presentation on self-sufficient, sustainable living and animal welfare." 
Develop a business plan
"We've always wanted to farm for a living and started the planning process when we purchased our first animals," Cherrie tells us. They wrote a business plan with assistance from Paul Dietmann, Sauk County Agricultural Agent and Dick Cates' School for Beginning Dairy Farmers at UW-Madison. "We've been adapting this plan as new ideas and opportunities present themselves. The chicken aspect just started seriously in January 2005 with the first Mad City Chickens meeting. We had raised chickens for years but this group looked like a good community service/education project plus a potential customer base." 
Over the last year, they have had a hard time keeping up with the demand. "We plan to eventually buy or rent a larger farm to expand the production to meet our direct marketing customer's needs and support both of us off of the farm proceeds. I also hope to participate in on-farm research," states Cherrie. 
Spread the word
Currently, Cherrie advertises primarily at the Farmers Market Stand and on the Mad City Chickens website. She feels that they have a very colorful and attractive display that helps draw the people in and connect them to their products. They give away free information, advertise for Dennis Harrison-Noonan and advertise for Mad City Chickens. The booth is multi-purpose and is also used for the Science Alliance, promoting scientific inquiry and discovery as well as the semi-annual Horticulture Days that educates the community on poultry in the garden. 
What has worked... 
Cherrie has found that a two-person team, one who focuses on marketing and planning and the other who focuses on production, with both actively and continuously researching and improving their respective areas, has worked well for their business. 
She feels small businesses should start small and try not to take out loans to get started. Let the sale of products pay for the start-up costs. 
Another key factor is learning to see an opportunity and responding quickly to fill a need. 
For her, focusing a lot of effort on public education and outreach and providing free information to help people get started has led to added business, word of mouth advertising and also adds personal pleasure to her work. It helps that they have a good grasp of the science behind the methods for the consumers who are well-educated and the respect for those who take the time to get the whole story. The best sales marketing tool has been to invite folks to visit the farm to see that they walk the walk and can talk the talk, and of course, having lots of petting and baby animals for the buyers with the most influence: the children.

</file>

<file= AmE06_F14>

Like, I am sure, many other believers in what this country has been trying to do in the Middle East and particularly in Iraq, I have found my thoughts returning in the past year to something that Tom Paine, writing at an especially dark moment of the American Revolution, said about such times. They are, he memorably wrote, "the times that try men's souls," the times in which "the summer soldier and the sunshine patriot" become so disheartened that they "shrink from the service of [their] country."

But Paine did not limit his anguished derision to former supporters of the American War of Independence whose courage was failing because things had not been going as well on the battlefield as they had expected or hoped. In a less famous passage, he also let loose on another group:
'Tis surprising to see how rapidly a panic will sometimes run through a country. . . . Yet panics, in some cases, have their uses. . . [T]heir peculiar advantage is, that they are the touchstones of sincerity and hypocrisy, and bring things and men to light, which might otherwise have lain for ever undiscovered.
Thus, he explained, "Many a disguised Tory has lately shown his head," emboldened by the circumstances of the moment to reveal an opposition to the break with Britain that it had previously seemed prudent to conceal. 

The similarities to our situation today are uncanny. We, too, are in the midst of a rapidly spreading panic. We, too, have our sunshine patriots and summer soldiers, in the form of people who initially supported the invasion of Iraq - and the Bush Doctrine from which it followed - but who are now abandoning what they have decided is a sinking ship. And we, too, are seeing formerly disguised opponents of the war coming more and more out into the open, and in ever greater numbers. 

Yet in spite of these similarities, there is also a very curious difference between the American panic of 1776-7 and the American panic of 2005-6. To put it in the simplest and starkest terms: in that early stage of the Revolutionary War, there was sound reason to fear that the British would succeed in routing Washington's forces. In Iraq today, however, and in the Middle East as a whole, a successful outcome is staring us in the face. Clearly, then, the panic over Iraq - which expresses itself in increasingly frenzied calls for the withdrawal of our forces - cannot have been caused by the prospect of defeat. On the contrary, my twofold guess is that the real fear behind it is not that we are losing but that we are winning, and that what has catalyzed this fear into a genuine panic is the realization that the chances of pulling off the proverbial feat of snatching an American defeat from the jaws of victory are rapidly running out. 
Of course, to anyone who relies entirely or largely on the mainstream media for information, it will come as a great surprise to hear that we are winning in Iraq. Winning? Militarily? How can we be winning militarily when, day after day, the only thing of any importance going on in that country is suicide bombings and car bombings? When neither our own troops nor the Iraqi forces we have been training are able to stop the "insurgents" from scoring higher and higher body counts? When every serious military move we make against the strongholds of these dedicated and ruthless adversaries is met with "fierce resistance"? When, for every one of them we manage to kill, two more seem to pop up?

Winning? Politically? How can we be winning politically when the very purpose for which we allegedly invaded Iraq has been unmasked as a chimera? When every step we force the Iraqis to take toward democratization is accompanied by angry sectarian strife between Shiites and Sunnis and between each of them and the Kurds? When our clumsy efforts to bring the Sunnis into the political process have hardly made a dent in their support for the insurgency? When the end result is less likely to be the stable democratic regime we supposedly went there to establish than a civil war followed by the breakup of Iraq into three separate countries?

There has been one great exception to this relentless drumbeat of bad news: it occurred in January 2005, in the coverage of the first election in liberated Iraq. To the astonishment of practically everyone in the world, more than 8 million Iraqis came out to vote on election day even though the Islamofascist terrorists had threatened to slaughter them if they did. This very astonishment was a measure of how false an impression had been created of the state of affairs in Iraq. No one fed by the mainstream media could have had the slightest inkling that these 8 million people were actually there, so invisible had they been to reporters who spent all their time interviewing the discontented Iraqi Man in the Street and to cameras seemingly incapable of focusing on anything but carnage and rubble. 

But the mainstream media soon recovered from the shock. By October, on the morning after a second ballot in which the new Iraqi constitution was ratified by fully 79 percent of the electorate, the Washington Post ran its announcement of these inspiring results on page 13. As for the paper's front page, the columnist Jeff Jacoby would note that it
was dominated by a photograph, stretched across four columns, of three daughters at the funeral of their father, . . . who had died from injuries suffered during a September 26 bombing in Baghdad. Two accompanying stories, both above the fold, were headlined "Military Has Lost 2,000 in Iraq" and "Bigger, Stronger, Homemade Bombs Now to Blame for Half of U.S. Deaths." A nearby graphic - "The Toll" - divided the 2,000 deaths by type of military service.
In sum, in the words of the Australian blogger Arthur Chrenkoff:
Death, violence, terrorism, precarious political situation, problems with reconstruction, and public frustration (both in Iraq and America) dominate, if not overwhelm, the mainstream media coverage and commentary on Iraq.
About a year ago, concerned that he might have been exaggerating when he made this assertion on the basis of his "gut feeling," Chrenkoff decided to check it out more scientifically. So he did "a little tally" of the stories published or broadcast all over the world on a single average day (which happened to be January 21, 2005). Here are some of the numbers that, with the help of the Google News Index, he was able to report from that one day:
•2,642 stories about Condoleezza Rice's confirmation hearings, in the context of grilling she has received over the administration's Iraq policy.
 
•1,992 stories about suicide bombings and other terrorist attacks.
 
 
•887 stories about prisoner abuse by British soldiers.
•216 stories about hostages currently being held in Iraq.
•761 stories reporting on activities and public statements of insurgents. 
•357 stories about the antiwar movement and the dropping public support for involvement in Iraq. 
•182 stories about American servicemen killed and wounded in operations. 
 
•217 stories about concerns for fairness and validity of Iraqi election (low security, low turnout, etc.). 
 
•107 stories about civilian deaths in Iraq. 
 
•123 stories noting Vice President Cheney's admission that he had underestimated the task of reconstruction. 
 
•118 stories about complicated and strained relations between the U.S. and Europe. 
 
•121 stories discussing the possibility of an American pullout. 
 
•27 stories about sabotage of Iraqi oil infrastructure.
As against all this, the good news made a pathetic showing:
• 16 stories about security successes in the fight against insurgents. 
 
 
• 7 stories about positive developments relating to elections. 
 
•73 stories about the return to Iraq of stolen antiquities.1

Obviously, then, the reporters and their editors in the mainstream media have been working overtime to show how badly things have been going for us in Iraq. Meanwhile, the op-ed pundits, the academic theorists, and the armchair generals have chimed in with analyses blaming it all on the incompetence of the President and his appointees. By now, the proposition that the aftermath of the invasion has been marked by one disastrous blunder after another is accepted without question or qualification by just about everyone: open opponents of the Bush Doctrine eager to prove that they were right to denounce the invasion; Democrats whose main objective is to discredit the Bush administration; and erstwhile supporters who have lost heart and are looking for a way to justify their desertion.

But the charge of incompetence has also been hurled by strong supporters of the Bush Doctrine in general and of the invasion of Iraq in particular, whose purpose is to prod the people running the operation into doing a better job. The most authoritative such supporter, Eliot A. Cohen of Johns Hopkins, has expressed a
desire - barely controlled - to slap the highly educated fool who, having no soldier friends or family, once explained to me that mistakes happen in all wars, and that the casualties are not really all that high, and that I really shouldn't get exercised about them.
Now, this person may well have deserved a slap for being presumptuous toward a distinguished military historian, or for insensitivity in downplaying casualties when speaking to the father of an infantry officer on his way to Iraq. But at the risk of exposing myself as another highly educated fool, I must confess that I too think we need to be reminded that mistakes happen in all wars, and that the casualties in this one are very low by any historical standard.

Before measuring Iraq in these two respects, I want to look more closely at some of the actions taken by the Bush administration that are universally accepted as mistakes, and to begin by pointing out that the main one is based on an outright falsification of the facts. This is the accusation that no thought was given to what would happen once we got to Baghdad and no plans were therefore made for dealing with the aftermath of the combat phase. Yet the plain truth is that much thought was given to, and many plans were made for dealing with, horrors that everyone expected to happen and then, mercifully, did not. Among these were: house-to-house fighting to take Baghdad; the flight of a million or more refugees; the setting of the oil fields afire; and the outbreak of a major civil war.

As for the insurgency, even if its dimensions had accurately been foreseen, it would still have been impossible to eliminate it in short order. To cite Eliot Cohen himself:
If the insurgencies in Northern Ireland, Israel/Palestine, Sri Lanka, and Kashmir continue, what reason do we have to expect this one to end so soon?
A related group of alleged "mistakes" turn out on closer inspection to be judgment calls, concerning which it is possible for reasonable men to differ. The most widely circulated of these - especially among supporters of the war on the Right - is that there were too few American "boots on the ground" to mount an effective campaign against the insurgency. Perhaps. And yet the key factor in fighting a terrorist insurgency is not the number of troops deployed against it but rather the amount and quality of the intelligence that can be obtained from infiltrating its ranks and from questioning prisoners (a task made all the more difficult for us by the campaign here at home to define torture down to the point where it would become illegal to subject even a captured terrorist to generally accepted methods of interrogation). 

Finally, there are "mistakes" that were actually choices between two evils - choices that had to be made when it was by no means obvious which was the lesser of the two. The best example here is the policy of "de-Baathification." This led to a disbanding of the Iraqi army, whose embittered Sunni members were then putatively left with nothing to do but volunteer their services to the insurgency.

</file>

<file= AmE06_F15>

MILES TO GO
Ra Ra Riot maps out the remainder of '07.
Wesley Miles teeters on the edge of a Brooklyn stage with an outstretched arm and a pair of eyes stolen from a repentant stained-glass saint. His vocal is warm and wistful, and his fellow Ra Ra Riot bandmates - Milo Bonacci, Rebecca Zeller, Alexandra Lawn, Mathieu Santos and a friend on drums - support him with a mesh of melodic strings, deep and driving guitar and bass, and rapid-fire beats. Sincerity, not crass apathy, coats each song, and the style translates to the group's shared attitude toward making music together - as long as it's fun. 
    Since forming at Syracuse University in January 2006, Miles, 23, and the Rioters have received the approving nod from bloggers and fans, released a self-titled EP, endured the tragic loss of their friend and drummer, John Pike, toured with Tokyo Police Club, and transitioned from college band to professional musicians. But before Miles became the bashful, hair-whipping frontman, he was a physics major who used to play in his high school marching band. Miles credits his band days in Glen Ridge, N.J., with two fortunate outcomes: He improved his music reading, and he met his close friend Ezra Koenig, lead singer of the Brooklyn-based Vampire Weekend.
    The band will squeeze a lot into the next four months, including tour dates with Editors and a music video for the E.E. Cummings-inspired "Dying Is Fine" with filmmaker and fellow Syracuse alum Albert Birney (who's also worked with the Spinto Band and the Capitol Years). "I saw his senior film sort of accidentally, and I just became obsessed," Miles says of Birney. "I can't wait to work with him." The group will also find itself in Seattle this winter to record its first LP. Some of their strongest live pieces include the dark-hued "Ghost Under Rocks," "Each Year", and Pike's "St. Peter's Day Festival," but the LP track list has yet to be finalized. Ra Ra Riot has also begun playing a rousing live cover of Kate Bush's "Suspended in Gaffa." Miles, a long-time fan of the '80s songstress, says he was unsure of how the band felt about the quirky track - until he caught them playing it. "I wasn't even there!" Miles says, "But when I came into the space where we were rehearsing, they were almost already done [learning it]." Will it make the LP? "I'd say it's 50/50," answers Miles with a wink.         

BONDE DO ROLE
Serving up some Brazilian funky freshness.
Combine one part wild and bouncing misfit songstress with two parts man-powered MC and D.J. Add a splash of baile funk rhythms, a twist of popular samples, and garnish with loads of raunchy lyrics in Portuguese that get a "say what?" from English-speakers. Rather than being the instructions for a bizarro tequila sunrise, this is the recipe for the punchy Brazilian concoction known as Bonde do Rolê -  a band whose high-energy shows are guaranteed to give you the spins.         
    MC Marina Ribatski, 22, met the members of the three-piece, fellow MC Pedro D'Eyrot and MC/DJ Rodrigo Gorky, in her hometown of Curitiba in southern Brazil. Ribatski had toyed with the idea of getting into music professionally as a teenager, but she never had high hopes for the ambition. "In Brazil, if you want a music career, you have a 0.00001 percent chance." After meeting up with D'Eyrot and Gorky, Ribatski says they started Bonde do Rolê in 2005 as a joke. "[The rehearsals] were like drinking and writing stupid lyrics we thought were funny," she says. "We never expected to be a proper band."
    The trio decided to put some of its songs on MySpace, and to the band's surprise, the songs started to spread. After playing only four gigs in small Brazilian clubs, Bonde do Rolê was called on to tour Europe with Wes Prentz, a known Brazilian music fan who goes by the moniker Diplo. Diplo promoted the band through his Mad Decent label before the group officially signed with Domino in 2006. That year the group also had what Ribatski calls "the best tour" the band ever did, when Bonde do Rolê hit the road with Diplo and fellow Brazilians Cansei de Ser Sexy. "It was a real low budget, partying, rock 'n' roll tour," Ribatski says. "It was like Wes [Diplo] and 10 crazy Brazilians. We drove him crazy." At the tour's Chicago stop at the Pitchfork Festival, Ribatski managed to break her arm while stage diving. When the band stopped in Chicago on this year's tour to promote the debut album, With Lazers, Ribatski she felt it necessary to force herself to stage dive in order to put her past Chicago mishap behind her. She almost psyched herself out of it, "but then I did it, and I just threw the microphone and was like, 'Yeah, let's cheer because I didn't break anything in Chicago!'" 
CHRISTINE WERTHMAN
HEIMA: A FILM BY SIGUR RóS
A documentary that juxtaposes the beauty of Iceland with the band's oneiric music.
In the summer of 2006, after a well-received world tour, Sigur Rós offered a series of free, unannounced shows throughout their native Iceland. Heima, literally "at home," chronicles these extraordinary performances, which included an open-air concert to thousands in Reykjavík; a candlelit, acoustic show in an intimate coffeeshop; a handmade marimba played in a darkened cave. Director Dean DeBlois juxtaposes the tactile beauty of Iceland in high-definition close-ups of rocks, fjords, and abandoned farmhouses with the equally cinematic hushed atonality of the band's oneiric music. The images, like the music, hide as much as they reveal; there is an undercurrent swelling below every note, every nuance, and when it crests, the result is nothing short of magical. The DVD, accompanied by a double CD, Hvarf/Heim, reaffirms the soundtrack-ready quality of Sigur Rós, which is already evident in the number of films and television shows that have used their tunes as a backdrop. But as internationally successful as they've become, these performances show that, for Sigur Rós, there's no place like home.
REBECCA RODRIGUEZ

MIAMI INK
Bienvenido a Art Basel. Here are our Top Ten shows to see and parties to hit! 
For the past six years, Art Basel has proved there is more to Miami than trance beats and bilingual eye candy, culling 200 galleries and more than 2,000 artists from around the globe. Iconic Basquiats will be juxtaposed against Futura's graffiti murals, Erwin Wurm's spontaneous sculptures, Luiz Zerbini's multi-media masterpieces, Nathalie Djurberg's claymation narratives, and Philippe Perrot's pen and ink abstractions. Takashi Murakami is hosting the first-ever Geisai Art Fair; bands from clashing genres like Iggy Pop and the Stooges and Deerhoof are performing; not to mention, with KAWS, Yves Behar, and others designing special edition tattoos of their art, you now have more, er, investment options. Here, our Top Ten shows to see and parties to hit!

1. AS LONG AS IT LASTS
what: Wear your art on your sleeve, literally. Tobias Wong, Josée Lepage and Aric Chen have organized "As Long A It Lasts" a pop-up tattoo parlor featuring tattoos designed by Vito Acconci, Hella Jongerius, 5.5 Designers, KAWS, Yves Behar, Lawrence Weiner, Jurgen Mayer H, and Tord Boontje & Andrew Allenson, to let you leave Miami with a permanent souvenir. 
where: The Loft Building, 3841 NE 2nd Ave.
when: Dec. 6-9.  
designmiami.com

2. GEISAI ART FAIR
what: That Takashi Murakami is hosting the opening night for the first annual Geisai Art Fair should be enough of a draw, but Eric Doeringer's unabashed bootlegs of Richard Prince works should seal the deal.
where: Prive, 136 Collins Avenue.
when: Opens Dec. 4 (11 pm) 
geisai.us

3. F.A.M.E. COLLECTIVE POP UP GALLERY
what: Busta Rhymes and D.J. Samantha Ronson know how to throw a party. The F.A.M.E. Collective - which includes Futura, MARS 1, Shawn Barber, Jeremy Fish, and Ron English - has enlisted the two to host the opening for their Pop Up Gallery, where they will also debut a pair of limited edition JB Classics kicks.
where: Mansion 1235 Washington Ave.
when: Dec. 7 (11pm)
fame-collective.com

4. ART IN MOTION
what: Y-3 & EAI present Art in Motion, an outdoor and indoor video installation featuring compilations of multiple video artists and the work of Dara Birnbaum. 
where: Y-3 Miami, 150 NE 40th St., Design District.
when: Dec. 5-8 (outdoor installation 12noon  -  11pm / indoor installation 11am  -  7pm) 
eai.org

5. BERLIN SCREENING
what: Rub shoulders with the art world elite in celebration of Julian Schnabel's indie film, Berlin, which documents Lou Reed's five-night performance in 2006 of the 1973 concept album Berlin. The party will be hosted by Schnabel's daughter, Lola. 
where: Set, 320 Lincoln Rd.
when:  Dec. 8 (11pm)
setmiami.com
MUM'S THE WORD
If the word "ethereal" can be embodied, the Icelandic group Múm and its transportive music do just that. In Manhattan for the inventive and industrious Wordless Music Festival - a series of concerts that pairs electronic and indie bands with classical acts - Múm played St. Paul the Apostle church before heading off for a European tour. Hipster kids infiltrated, overflowing from pews, plopping cross-legged on the floor, and sitting side-stage in choir chairs. Fronting the show were fair-haired Nords mr.Silla (who, despite her masculine moniker, appears angelic with stage lights shining on her cooing baby-face), Hildur Gudnadottir (a Juliette Binoche deadringer who smiles as if she's on happy drugs), and Eiríkur Orri Olafsson (who resembles a scary surgeon from a bad horror flick, particularly when blowing his melodica tube). Now on FatCat Records with Animal Collective and equally atmospheric compatriot Sigur Rós, the band has persisted for almost a decade. Late September 2007 brought a new CD, Go Go Smear the Poison Ivy, showcasing the band's characteristic melodies despite its rotating cast (piercing-voiced Kristín Anna Valtýsdóttir left in 2006; five others join founding members Gunnar Örn Tynes and Örvar Þóreyjarson Smárason for recording and touring). Fresh from Reykjavik's world-class Iceland Airwaves Music Festival - which also featured Bonde de Role, of Montreal, and Bloc Party last month - Múm's set at St. Paul's was as spiritual as its setting, and sensual, too - with mr.Silla coddling her ukulele, classically trained Hildur happiest when straddling her cello, and floppy-mohawked Eiríkur crouching before his moog. Heavenly, symphonic, and ascendant, this is music for fans of the movie Science of Sleep, for people who think glitches are good, for people who wish the Northern Lights rose with a soundtrack. CAROLINE KINNEBERG

BEIRUT
Gypsy music" seemed the best way to categorize the sounds of Zach Condon's Beirut after the 2006 release, Gulag Orkestar. It was a fitting, albeit vague, categorization that considered the Eastern European/Balkan/Romanian influence in Beirut's sound. That album brought with it jangled percussive flourishes, accordion, bloated brass, sweetly melodic mandolin and strings, and Condon's rich warble. But on their second full-length, The Flying Club Cup (Ba Da Bing), Beirut has added the flavors of a new location to its sound: France. The album wears many of Gulag Orkestar's pieces of flair, but it claims more finesse and sounds tidier, sharper, and more focused than its successor. On "Cliquot", Beirut's Owen Pallett reveals a smooth tenor hiding beneath his shaky moan. Condon's quaky vibrato on "Nantes" sounds well placed and now moves similarly to that of Antony from Antony & The Johnsons. The Flying Club Cup maintains Beirut's communal vibe with all players contributing a little something to each track, but the instruments do not bleed into each other quite as much as they did on Gulag; instead, they have room to breath and be heard. Whether the cleaner sound was a conscious choice or not, it shows Beirut's music choices maturing. Condon takes his time with this album, sprinkling it with piano-driven compositions like "Un Dernier Verre (Pour La Route)" and lighter romps like "The Penalty." Gulag might have indicated that Condon, now 21, left his sophomore album with some big shoes to fill, but as The Flying Club Cup indicates, the boy and his music are growing into them just fine.

</file>

<file= AmE06_F16>

Dungeons, Dragons, and Taxes
The IRS is eyeing your hard-earned virtual gold. 

In the beginning, there was the MUD. The first Multi User Dungeon, Richard Bartle and Roy Trubshaw's "MUD1," came online at the University of Essex in 1979. A text-based computer adventure game, much like the board game Dungeons & Dragons, the MUD allowed players at remote terminals to interact and play in the game's nearly 400-room virtual world--acquiring swords with which to slay dragons, and the like. It was a programming and gaming milestone.
As computers--and networks--spread and became vastly more powerful and pervasive, the idea of the MUD expanded and evolved. In 1998, the game design firm Verant Interactive created EverQuest, which it dubbed the first "Massively Multiplayer Online Role-Playing Game" or MMORPG. From the outside, EverQuest couldn't have looked more different from MUD1: Instead of text, players saw a complicated, three-dimensional, graphic version of a virtual world, and they chose an avatar to represent themselves in the activities of that world (trading, fighting, questing). 
Unlike MUD1, which required expensive terminals hidden away in university computer labs, connected to gigantic main-frame computers, EverQuest could be played by almost anyone with a home computer and a modem. Also unlike MUD1, which hosted just dozens or scores of players at a time, EverQuest quickly accumulated nearly half a million players, each of whom paid an initial price for the purchase of the software and then a monthly fee of $12.95 for the privilege of slaying orcs, dragons, and other beasties in the virtual world while getting to interact with hordes of likeminded players.
Because a successful MMORPG franchise like EverQuest is a cash cow, many game developers have since gotten in on the action. Most of the games descend from the same swords-and-sorcery lineage as the original MUD1, the most successful being World of Warcraft--a property owned by Vivendi-Universal--which in November crossed the threshold of 7.5 million players worldwide. But there are other, nonfantasy online role-playing games, most notably Second Life, which offers the chance to live a "normal" life in a virtual world modeled on the real world. Players--or "residents," as they're referred to in the Second Life lexicon--go to work, hang out with friends, purchase houses. It's nearly as interesting as it is unsettling.
How big is the business of virtual gaming? Very big, but it exists at different levels. At the top level, multi national entertainment companies such as Vivendi-Universal and Sony (which now owns the EverQuest franchise) make hundreds of millions of dollars a year from these games. Take World of Warcraft: With 7.5 million subscribers paying about $15 a month each, that's a monthly cash gusher of $112.5 million. To put that in perspective, in 2006, all of the movies released by Universal together grossed about $800 million at the box office.
Beneath the corporate economy is a smaller consumer economy. MMORPGs have internal economies where virtual currency allows players to buy virtual goods. In Ultima Online, for instance, players win Britannian gold pieces by completing quests, slaying monsters, etc. These Britannian gold pieces can then be exchanged at shops in the game for special items--better weapons, better armor, mystical creatures--and between players within the games. Many players then hold real-world auctions, on websites such as eBay, to sell these virtual goods. This market is much bigger than you might expect.
In early 2005, for instance, a man named David Storey paid $26,500 for a virtual "Treasure Island" in the game Project Entropia. Later that year Jon Jacobs paid $100,000--remember, we are talking about real, U.S. dollars--for a virtual space station in the same game. Mind you, these aren't simply kids playing a game for fun--they are speculators hoping to get rich from the virtual economy. After his mammoth purchase, Jacobs told the tech website CNET, "I've seen the potential of it all, and I've gone through it, and I learned my lesson, and my lesson was that I can't afford not to do this. I could not afford not to get the space resort. It's too valuable. The guy that bought the Treasure Island recouped his investment in a year."
Jacobs was probably influenced by the success of a Second Life player known as Anshe Chung, whose virtual land and currency holdings are estimated to be in the neighborhood of $1 million. (Second Life is the only MMORPG that gives actual property rights to players.)
That's the high end of the virtual market. If you go to eBay or any number of other websites you can find people selling virtual belongings or even avatars for smaller, but still significant, sums. A weapon could be as cheap as $50. An avatar might cost several hundred or even a couple thousand dollars. Virtual real estate--land, castles, buildings--is, as a rule, more expensive.
There are people who make their living by speculating in virtual goods. A piece on the "Unreal Estate Boom" in Wired magazine profiled Bob Kiblinger, a former chemist for Procter & Gamble who quit his job to create the site UOTreasures.com, which buys the accounts and virtual assets of MMORPG players and then resells them at a profit. Think of it as a virtual pawn shop. In 2005 the New York Times did a story on the phenomenon called "gold farming": There are companies in China, where labor is cheap, that pay people to sit in warehouses full of computers playing MMORPGs in order to accumulate virtual loot, which is then sold back to Western gamers.
The virtual currencies themselves have secondary markets. Websites such as IGE.com or GameUSD.com buy and sell the pretend currencies for real dollars. Second Life's unit of currency, the "Linden dollar," for instance, trades at a rate of about 300 Lindens to the greenback.
An article on these MMORPG economies at CNET estimated that the market for virtual goods and currency might be in the range of $880 million annually. Other estimates put the figure closer to $1 billion. All of which has created a fat target for a very brick-and-mortar institution: the Internal Revenue Service.
In 2004, Julian Dibbell wrote a piece in Legal Affairs detailing his attempt to make the sale of imaginary goods his primary source of income. In one year of playing Ultima Online he made $11,000 by selling Golden Runic Hammers, Britannian gold pieces, and other pretend items on eBay. Dibbell then went about trying to report this income to the IRS. It was quite an adventure.
Paraphrasing the IRS's bible on "Taxable and Nontaxable Income," Dibbell noted that "goods taken in trade or won at play are taxable the moment they fall into somebody's hands, even if they are not sold for money." So while Dibbell clearly understood that he owed taxes on the $11,000 he made from real-world auctions, what wasn't at all clear was whether the government would want a piece of the Britannian gold pieces he had won, Golden Runic Hammers he had purchased with them, and the other items which he had bartered, bought, or traded for during the year. Each of these items had real market value, even if he had not realized it by selling them on the real market.
The tax code is reasonably strict on such matters. As Bryan Camp, a tax law professor at Texas Tech Law School, explained to Gamespot.com, Section 61 of the U.S. tax code provides that all income, "from whatever source derived," is taxable. Meaning that "if two people were to exchange copies of books, one of which is worth $30 and the other worth $24, the person ending up with the more expensive volume would have acquired $6 of taxable income."
The IRS has been strict on the concept of barter. In the 1970s, a small network of barter clubs arose that sought to exchange goods and services between members without giving the government a cut. They used a marker called "trade dollars." As Dibbell explained, "In a 1980 ruling, the [IRS] said that barter club transactions produced taxable income, even though no actual money changed hands. A 1982 law made enforcement of the ruling easier by requiring clubs to provide the IRS with information about every transaction." The net effect of which was to shut down the clubs.
There are, of course, good reasons for the government to be interested in virtual economies. As Indiana University economist Ted Castronova points out, "From the standpoint of economic theory . . . there's no fundamental distinction between selling euros and buying magic wands." And just as opportunistic Chinese companies have become interested in them, virtual game markets might in the future attract other unwelcome attention. It is not hard to imagine them becoming appealing for criminal activities, such as money laundering.
In any event, Dibbell went up the chain of command at the IRS looking for a ruling on whether or not he owed taxes on the whole of his virtual economic activity, and not simply his eBay gains. Not yet ready to set precedent, the IRS declined to give an answer.
But that was two years ago. Today, the government has finally turned its attention to the matter. Speaking on a "Tax and Finance" panel at a recent computer gaming symposium, Dan Miller, a senior economist on Congress's Joint Economic Committee, shed some light on the government's developing stance towards virtual gaming.
Miller's committee began examining virtual gaming economies last October and is expected to issue a report early in 2007. And while Miller said that the committee wouldn't "[seek] to impose a new tax on virtual economies," he said that the report would clarify "what is a taxable event in a virtual world." "Congressional and IRS interest in this issue," he explained, "is simply a matter of time."
So gamers take note. The day may be approaching when, after killing an orc and slaying a dragon, you will get your 1,000 gold pieces--and a 1099 form.
The Peace Party vs. the Power Party
The real divide in American politics.

The polarization that has characterized American politics since the presidency of Ronald Reagan has extended its reach to foreign affairs. Never have the differences between the two parties on issues of war and peace been so distinct. At no time since World War II has the divergence of partisan support for an ongoing war been as great. Nor have attitudes toward power--its origins, nature, and application--reflected ideological and partisan identification to the extent they do today.
The great divisions in American life--between low- and upper-income voters; those who attend religious services weekly and those who do not; people who are married and people who are single; voters with a postgraduate education and those without--are often less predictive of voting patterns than one's stance on the use of American power abroad. The Pew Research Center for the People and the Press concluded in 2005 that "foreign affairs assertiveness now almost completely distinguishes Republican-oriented voters from Democratic-oriented voters." Together, the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, and the March 20, 2003, invasion of Iraq seem to have accelerated a shift begun some 30 years ago: The Democratic party is increasingly linked with the attitudes, tendencies, and policies of peace, whereas the Republican party is increasingly linked with the maintenance and projection of American military power.
This is not to say that one party is entirely composed of doves and the other entirely of hawks. A look at our national politicians reveals exceptions to the dominant foreign policy tendency in either party. Nor can one say that the American electorate, taken as a whole, is bitterly divided over questions of foreign policy. Public opinion research has revealed that most Americans support similar foreign policy goals and share similar beliefs about the world and America's place in it. Most favor strengthening relationships with U.S. allies. Most prefer diplomacy to the use of arms, but will support the use of arms as a last resort. Most believe that America's global responsibilities extend beyond its own security.

</file>

<file= AmE06_F17>

Urban Adventures: New England's Cities
Kayaking, biking, sculling, hiking, sailing in the city?
As an outdoors writer living in Boston, I lay claim to a region that within close proximity rewards me with an array of adventures. If I wake up early, by 9 a.m. I could be hiking a 5,000-foot peak in New Hampshire, sea kayaking along Maine's granite-lined shores or Cape Cod's dunes, mountain biking in Vermont, or sailing the former America's Cup cruising grounds of Newport. Yet friends and family will tell you that I spend just as much time playing outside in my urban backyard.
Those early settlers got it right when they founded cities at the edge of the ocean and on our big lakes and mighty rivers. There are sections in all our cities where beauty rises from the shadows like an early-morning fog, and the scenery is best appreciated in slow motion.
Portland, ME: Kayaking
While lobstermen ply the ocean waters for their catch, Portlanders play in the waves with their shiny new kayaks. Follow their lead into the open water to paddle around a handful of the 220-plus Casco Bay islands (only a quarter of them are inhabited). Casco Bay Lines (207-774-7871; cascobaylines.com) leaves every hour or two year-round for a 20-minute cruise to Peaks Island ($3.25-$6.25 round trip). Once there, you can hook up with Maine Island Kayak Company (207-766-2373; maineislandkayak.com) for a full-day ($105) or half-day ($65) paddle.
On the half-day trip, you'll slide into your kayak and paddle over to Fort Gorges, built just before the Civil War, in 1858. From atop its thick stone walls, you can see the Portland waterfront in all its rugged grandeur. Huge cranes tower over the larger boats of the cruise fleet, while silver oil-storage tanks mushroom along the wharves. As you paddle your way around the northern tip of Great Diamond Island, be on the lookout for ospreys nesting in the tall pines that line the granite shores. Farther inland, new houses are going up to accommodate the year-round commuters who yearn to have the sea as their welcome mat. After this little jaunt, you might make that same move.
Providence, RI: Biking
All it takes is a mere six miles on a paved path to leave industrialized Providence and reach the coastline of Narragansett Bay. No wonder residents would rather bike to the beach than deal with car traffic. The 14.5-mile-long East Bay Bike Path (riparks.com/eastbay.htm, rigreenways.org), originally part of the Providence/Worcester rail line, heads southeast from the city along the bay's scenic shores to the town of Bristol. Less than two miles into the ride, fishing trawlers and sailboats appear on the right and small inlets and wetlands can be seen on the left. In warmer months, you're likely to see folks clamming for littlenecks in the shallow waters along the route. That's quite a contrast to the view of the Providence skyline that stands behind you.
South of the Riverside area, the trail becomes more secluded as you head through forest and over two wooden bridges toward Warren, a good place to stock up on food and drink. Continue pedaling south, hugging Narragansett's waters once again as the bay widens. Soon you'll arrive at Colt State Park (401-253-7482; riparks.com) and neighboring Bristol Town Beach, the finest spot for sunbathing in East Bay. The trail ends in Bristol at Independence Park, near a handful of seafood restaurants that sell those fresh littlenecks.

Boston, MA: Kayaking
Far too often, writers compare the pastoral landscape of New England to a Currier and Ives print. Stand on the edge of the Charles River on either the Boston or the Cambridge side, however, and you can't help thinking of Thomas Eakins's paintings of rowers in the 1870s. The Charles is still a quintessential 19th-century scene: Crew teams from Harvard and Boston University paddle by, joined by all those individual scullers who yearn for yesteryear, when they, too, were in some collegiate rowing club. The best vantage point is from the Cambridge side, on the bend of the river between the Western Avenue and Eliot bridges.
By all means, head down to the docks and join in the fun. Rent a kayak from Charles River Canoe & Kayak (617-965-5110; paddleboston.com; from $14 per hour) and paddle alongside the crew teams. If you want to give the one-person shell a go and you have some experience sculling, contact the company's Newton branch (781-891-6575). If you're brand-new to the sport, call Cygnet Rowing (617-876-8653; paddleboston.com/rowing); this private club offers "learn to row" weekend packages for the general public ($300 for nine hours of instruction).
Be forewarned: Learning to scull isn't easy. Both oars have to be together at all times or the boat quickly tips to the left or right. You must push off with your legs and scoot back as you propel the oars forward. Once you get into a rhythm, though, your cares will be forgotten as you quickly skim across the Charles. Folks who use the rowing machine at the local gym know what a great workout sculling is for the whole body. It's far superior when you're cruising along a river in the heart of Boston.
Hartford, CT: Walking
Why eat indoors at one of Hartford's shopping malls when you can dine alfresco atop a ridge? The slight uphill climb to Farmington Mountain, just outside the city limits, is part of Connecticut's extensive network of blue-blazed hiking trails, weaving through forests of maple, oak, and birch across relatively flat terrain, making for perfect noontime walks.
Pack a sandwich and park your car on the south side of Route 6, 0.9 miles east of Route 10. Then head across the road and start walking the Metacomet Trail. Towering hemlocks stand tall at the trail's edge as you make your way up a 250-foot-high ridge of Farmington Mountain. Within 20 to 30 minutes, you'll be looking down at the reservoir and quarry below. You have the best view money can't buy.
Manchester, NH: Bike Trail
You can thank a small group of locals in southwestern Wisconsin for creating an outdoor trend that has become a focal point of urban renewal across America. In the early 1960s, these out-of-the-box thinkers decided to do something creative with their stretch of abandoned railroad by reinventing it as a recreational path for bikers and walkers. Folks in New Hampshire have followed suit by taking a section of the Boston & Maine network and creating the state's longest rail trail, the 25-mile Rockingham Recreational Trail, which runs east of Manchester to the town of Newfields, about 12 miles from the coast. ATVs and other motorized vehicles are allowed, so the best time to avoid the hum is on a weekday.
To reach the trail's western start in Manchester, take Exit 1 off Route 101 East; then head south on Route 28, proceed around a rotary, and turn left into a parking lot at Lake Massabesic.
Starting here, the gravel trail follows the shoreline of the lake. At the five-mile mark, you'll venture through the first of three short tunnels, the path becoming more secluded as you make your way toward Onway Lake. Pass through a narrow granite corridor and then another tunnel before arriving at the town of Raymond, the halfway point. This is a good place to have a snack before continuing onward or turning back.
On the second half of the trail, you'll cross a long, old railroad bridge and soon be traveling along the Lamprey River. The last two miles to Newfields is a peaceful jaunt through meadows and woods before the path ends at an abandoned rail depot.
Burlington, VT: Sailing
Good winds, sheltered bays, hundreds of islands, and scenic anchorages combine to make 120-mile-long Lake Champlain one of the top cruising grounds in the East. Find a boat, with or without a captain, on the docks of Burlington. Winds of Ireland (800-458-9301, 802-863-5090; windsofireland.net) charters 30- to 40-foot Hunters by the day or week. Rates start at $300 per half day, with an extra $25 per hour for a captain.
Once you set sail, head south along the Vermont shore. Cormorants fly overhead as you cruise past the luxurious houses of South Cove, Shelburne Point, and Shelburne Bay. At the Lake Champlain Yacht Club, hundreds of sailboats are docked, tall masts gently bobbing and swaying from side to side. Past the fertile fields of Shelburne Farms, head west across the heart of the lake, where it's hard not to become mesmerized by the backbone of the Adirondack Mountains, beckoning from the New York side of Champlain. The lake is so vast that even on a busy weekend day, the waters never feel crowded.
The Price of a View in Vermont
How much would you pay to see a mountain?
Years ago, when our young family was searching for a place to settle in southern Vermont, we heard of a house for sale on Newfane Hill in the West River Valley. We were shopping on a pretty tight budget and had been in the market for some months. We'd looked over a lot of properties. One summer morning, I visited this latest property with Dottie, a Realtor from Brattleboro.
It was a likely spot, I found. In fact, "likely" is an understatement. The house itself needed work, but the setting needed nothing--it was on the eastern slope of a high hill, with little meadows all around, enclosed by stone walls and shady woods.
It looked like a place that would do for us; more than that, it looked, in the mysterious way of these things, like the right place, the destined place, the only place. (Every inexperienced buyer of rural real estate will know what I mean.)
Casually, I inquired about the asking price. Equally casually, my new friend Dottie quoted a figure that puzzled me. The number of dollars she named seemed to me to be calculated to buy four or five houses. I wanted only one. Had Dottie not understood? I put it to her.
"Price seem a little high?" Dottie replied.
"More than a little," I said.
"Well," she said. "But look at what you've got ... "
She pointed to the east. I followed her extended arm and saw, far away on the horizon, a vast blue pyramid rising above the intervening hills.
"You've got the view," said Dottie.
I'm afraid I looked blank. I was a newcomer to Vermont, and to New England generally.
"That's Mount Monadnock," Dottie explained. Together, we silently contemplated the far-off eminence, I reflecting on its power to add value, Dottie (no doubt) figuring her commission. The next day, my wife and I bought the place, lock, stock, barrel -- and Mount Monadnock.
It is one of the oddities of life in our state that for those in its lower-right-hand corner, Vermont's best-loved piece of the landscape isn't Vermont's at all. Mount Monadnock (officially, Grand Monadnock) dwells in New Hampshire, about 30 miles east of my dooryard. Over there, they're proud of their mountain. Of course they are. For its New Hampshire owners, Mount Monadnock is the geographical focal point of the whole southern half of the state. It's also a tourist destination and a prime recreational resource. Monadnock, its promoters tell us, is, after Mount Fuji, the most visited, most hiked-over mountain in the world.
For Vermonters, the mountain's value is comparable but harder to define. Its value is purely emotional. Monadnock may be in our neighbor's domain, but it's in our hearts.
Monadnock is a hard-rock cone with wooded flanks and a bald summit. At 3,165 feet, it's by no means the tallest mountain in these parts; at least three nearby Vermont peaks -- Stratton and Glastenbury mountains and Mount Snow -- are considerably higher. Monadnock, however, is a solitary mountain, sitting quite by itself on the surrounding landscape. In its isolation, it draws and holds the eye from a distance as the higher mountains do not. They are grand. Monadnock is something better than grand: It is singular.

</file>

<file= AmE06_F18>

Judgment Calls   
The outcry over decisions by major newspapers to disclose the Bush administration's secret monitoring of international banking transactions was fast and furious. 
Although the Wall Street Journal, the Los Angeles Times and the Washington Post also published articles describing efforts to trace the financial records of suspected terrorists, the New York Times broke the story on the Web and bore the brunt of the outrage. The administration had asked the New York Times and L.A. Times not to publish. But both papers ultimately decided to anyway, posting their pieces the evening of June 22 and publishing them on page one the following day. 
The clash between the First Amendment's guarantee of a free press and the patriotic duty to protect American lives and uphold national security puts the media in an uncomfortable position. For the second time in six months, the New York Times had infuriated the administration by exposing a secret program in the war on terror. The piece followed a December 16 story disclosing the National Security Agency's warrantless eavesdropping inside the United States. In that instance, too, the administration had pleaded with the Times to withhold publication. But after delaying for more than a year to conduct additional reporting, the Times published the article--and won a Pulitzer Prize for it. 
On June 26, President Bush condemned the global banking records story. "Congress was briefed," he said, answering questions from reporters. "And what we did was fully authorized under the law. And the disclosure of this program is disgraceful. We're at war with a bunch of people who want to hurt the United States of America, and for people to leak that program, and for a newspaper to publish it, does great harm to the United States of America." 
Vice President Dick Cheney weighed in more pointedly the next day. "Some in the press, in particular the New York Times, have made the job of defending against further terrorist attacks more difficult by insisting on publishing detailed information about vital national security programs," Cheney said in a June 27 speech. He called the Times' Pulitzer for its NSA story "a disgrace." 
Those statements were positively temperate compared with the reaction among administration allies. Sen. Jim Bunning, a Kentucky Republican, accused the New York Times of "treason." Rep. Peter King, a New York Republican who chairs the House Committee on Homeland Security, asked the U.S. attorney general to launch a criminal investigation of the paper. On June 29, the House of Representatives voted 227-to-183 to condemn the publication of classified information and to urge news organizations' cooperation in the war on terror. In early August, Sen. Kit Bond, a Missouri Republican, introduced a bill that would criminalize the unauthorized disclosure of classified information. 
The punditry was even more vociferous. On June 28, San Francisco talk show host Melanie Morgan told the San Francisco Chronicle that New York Times Executive Editor Bill Keller should be jailed for treason for approving publication of the banking records story. "If he were to be tried and convicted of treason, yes, I would have no problem with him being sent to the gas chamber," Morgan told the Chronicle. "It is about revealing classified secrets in the time of war. And the media has got to take responsibility for revealing classified information that is putting American lives at risk." 
In all likelihood, the most biting media retort to the sorts of accusations leveled by Morgan and others came 11 years earlier, in the 1995 autobiography of Ben Bradlee. In "A Good Life," the former Washington Post executive editor wryly observed: "Editors--and reporters, and especially owners--don't like to be accused of giving aid and comfort to the enemy, even when they know it not to be true. It riles the kooks and the woolly hats of this world, and results in a great deal of ill-tempered and unnecessary correspondence." 
In his inimitable style, Bradlee fired back at his critics. ("Dear Asshole," he began in response to a letter labeling him "UnAmerican.") But in this gentler age of transparency and accountability, not to mention heightened public contempt for the media, editors have largely swallowed their frustration. They have chosen to answer passionate--often virulent--denunciations by explaining the painstaking path that national security stories travel to publication. 
Keller and Los Angeles Times Editor Dean Baquet took the unusual step of publishing a joint op-ed piece illuminating their decisions on the banking records stories. "There is no magic formula, no neat metric for either the public's interest or the dangers of publishing sensitive information," the editors wrote. "We make our best judgment." 
In interviews with AJR, top editors at the newspapers involved in recent high-profile skirmishes, as well as other authorities on national security reporting, explained how stories based on classified information are reported and how editors decide whether to publish in the face of administration objections. (AJR also requested interviews with Cheney and White House Press Secretary Tony Snow; both declined.) 
The editors described a deliberative process guided by intense questioning, a willingness to pull back on technical details that could endanger lives and, ultimately, a commitment to informing the public about the government's use of power. 
As Keller and Baquet wrote in their joint piece, "The process begins with reporting. Sensitive stories do not fall into our hands. They may begin with a tip from a source who has a grievance or a guilty conscience, but those tips are just the beginning of long, painstaking work." 
Washington Post Executive Editor Leonard Downie Jr. says national security articles seldom develop the way the public tends to assume: Not since Daniel Ellsberg leaked the Pentagon Papers to the New York Times in 1971 can he recall an instance in which a single person supplied an entire story to a journalist. Instead, a beat reporter such as the Post's Dana Priest, who won a Pulitzer for her November story exposing the CIA's secret prison system of "black sites" for hiding and interrogating some al Qaeda captives, "gradually unearths the outlines of a story." 
Keller concurs that there's a "sort of mythology that some disgruntled bureaucrat calls a reporter cold and says, 'Meet me in a parking garage, and I will hand over a box of files on this secret program.' It pretty much never happens that way." Reporters may hear something that's "the most shadowy notion of what's going on" and stitch information together from multiple places. "That's part of the puzzle you struggle with when you're deciding whether to publish," he says. "Do you trust those people to tell you when it's safe to publish when they may not be in a position to really know?" 
As a reporter on these stories, "you want to know everything you can know because even if you withhold certain details, you're going to write a better story if you have all of that in your head," says Steve Coll, a staff writer for The New Yorker, former Washington Post managing editor and author of the 2005 Pulitzer Prize-winning book "Ghost Wars" detailing the secret history of the CIA's role in Afghanistan. "You're in the fog all the time, always groping..you're always concerned that you're missing something." 
Occasionally reporters "get lucky, and you have sources that are sitting on top of what you're interested in and allow you to see the whole of it," Coll says. "But often sources only have partial access, or even if they have fuller access, they're only willing to talk about part of what they know... Particularly when the subject matter is surrounded by both classification concerns and political debate, it's as treacherous as it gets. The only way to attack that problem is through reporting, and it means also trying to surround a subject from as many angles as possible." 
Often that means seeking viewpoints from foreign as well as domestic sources. "Even if I have great American sources, I want non-American perspectives to make sure there isn't some angle of vision that I'm failing to internalize," Coll says. But even that does not always save a reporter from errors: In the run-up to the war in Iraq, Britain and France also believed in the existence of weapons of mass destruction. The United Nations, however, "did have it more or less right. To the extent that any American paper did document the limits of WMD..it was clear that did come from the U.N." 
As a reporter works to confirm information, an initial tip can unravel partially or entirely. On June 13, the L.A. Times' Washington bureau was told about the banking records by a source who said, "'Here's the broad outlines of the story, and it's competitive, the New York Times is working on the story,'" recounts Douglas Frantz, the L.A. Times managing editor who oversees newsgathering. Some of that initial guidance turned out to be wrong. The tipster said the FBI was using administrative subpoenas to go to the Belgium-based cooperative known as Swift and gain access to the records. "As it turned out, it was in fact the Treasury Department." 
Reporters are trying to pry out sensitive information during a period of intense anxiety. "I haven't heard direct threats, but there are occasional reminders from administration officials that, in their view, the Espionage Act may apply to newspapers that publish classified information of any kind," says Doyle McManus, the L.A. Times Washington bureau chief. Those warnings, combined with high-profile setbacks for journalists' ability to protect sources in federal courts, do not intimidate reporters, McManus says. "It does make them worry about the well-being of their sources. They are hearing this concern from their sources, and they are taking precautions to try to protect their sources, keeping sources' names out of written notes, for example, taking more care with telephone or e-mail communications." 
As reporters dig, they sift through often-intriguing details about particular programs. Investigating the secret prisons story, the Post's Priest "came across a lot of information about covert antiterrorism projects that right from the outset it was clear to us that details here and there would not be important to readers" but would either be "injurious to Americans potentially or could damage these programs potentially," Downie says. "As we gradually shape what we think the story's going to be, most often senior officials will talk to the reporter about concerns and ask them to raise them with us." 
Downie says government officials are involved "very, very early on" in the process, "particularly officials that are doing their jobs well. Reporters are talking to them, asking them questions. They can see stories taking shape." Sometimes an official raises a specific concern that may resolve itself as the reporting proceeds, if, for example, a technical detail about an operation turns out to have little relevance to the story or is clearly of interest only to someone who wants to harm the country. Government officials also may drop a request to withhold publication. 
Especially with national security stories, the Post "sort of had a standing rule that we wanted to hear about concerns of these kinds if they were raised during the reporting," Coll says. The editors first tried to "understand what [the officials] were worried about, or if it was a concern they were voicing on their own. Then we'd ask the reporter to tell whoever was raising the question to kick it up their chain and determine whether the government side did have a concern or somebody down in the middle ranks was being overly cautious... You sort of challenge them" by asking, "'Are you speaking for your boss? And if you are speaking for your boss, would you mind putting your boss on the phone at some point?'" 
If publication concerns reflect the government's position, there's a "tacit protocol," Keller says. "It's one thing for the flack at the department to tell the reporter, 'You shouldn't publish this,' but if the administration is really serious, somebody fairly senior on their side contacts somebody fairly senior on our side."

</file>

<file= AmE06_F19>

For Eakins and Forbes, a common institutional affiliation catalyzed the fraternal anatomical discourse to which each man contributed in his own way. The institution in question was Jefferson Medical College, one of Philadelphia's preeminent medical schools, where both men had studied anatomy, though at different times. To borrow the words of a contemporary medical student celebrating solidarity among his peers at the college, Eakins and Forbes could be called "Jeff College Boys." One of the many discursive links between art and medicine to be explored here is a monumental commemorative portrait of Forbes that Eakins painted in 1905 (fig. 1), a work that has received little critical attention, despite its august location today adjacent to the artist s most famous painting The Gross Clinic (Portrait of Dr. Samuel D. Gross) of 1875 in Jefferson's shrinelike Eakins Gallery. As we will see, the Forbes portrait offers eloquent visual testimony of the mutual, enduring anatomical interests of painter and doctor, even if the two men did not actually meet face-to-face until the occasion of its execution.
Despite the heroism often ascribed to Eakins and Forbes as proponents of modernization in their respective disciplines, anatomical study and teaching implicated them in a political conflict with classes of people whose bodies tended to be sacrificed on what Philadelphia sensationalist fiction writer George Lippard once described as "the foul altar of a dissecting table."8 The idea of sacrifice, though already invoked by Lippard s antebellum use of the word "altar" might seem to some readers inappropriate here because such anatomical material was already dead and (usually) not killed for the purpose of dissection. Viewing dissection in terms of sacrifice gains historical validity, however, when we recognize how in the nineteenth century the practice laid bare not only anatomical knowledge but also socioeconomic disparity. Whereas some people could afford to bury their dead intact with dignity, others needed public assistance, which stipulated that the corpses in question (including those left unclaimed at morgues) be used as dissection specimens before burial. Anatomical dissection thus entailed a sacrifice of human dignity on the part of those whose corpses were cut open as well as on the part of their living relatives and other members of their group, for whom the process provided a glaring reminder of inferior class status. A similar, albeit less morbid, set of conditions governed living anatomical models - typically laborers who sacrificed a significant measure of dignity by disrobing before their superiors, whose eyes performed a kind of visual dissection. Ironically, Eakins, Forbes, and other members of their professional class came to view sacrifice reflexively in terms of their own labor and even "martyrdom" in behalf of anatomical knowledge, as if metaphorically identifying with and appropriating the lowly or abject status of their specimens. At the same time, anatomical study potentially confronted such professionals with empirical proof of the basic biological equality among humans, regardless of race or class, and hence the historical contingency of their social privilege. That is, while anatomical study depended upon unequal social relations, its findings had the power to call such relations into question. Of course, most professional anatomists and artists of the period, inculcated in social evolutionist doctrines of racial and cultural hierarchy, either did not notice or disregarded such biological evidence of human equality. This remained true at least until around 1900, when the German-American anthropologist Franz Boas waged a fierce campaign against such doctrines. Although Eakins and Forbes were still active then, no documentary evidence indicates that either man consciously embraced Boasian ideas. As we will see, however, in the case of Eakins and his art there are tentative signs of disenchantment with the older hierarchical paradigm.
Several art historians recently have examined Eakins's medical imagery (though not the Forbes portrait) in relation to issues of gender, sexuality, vivisection, and public perceptions of surgery, but their accounts focus either exclusively on the painter s immediate artistic circle or on historical phenomena rather distant from the cultural politics of anatomy in Philadelphia. Little critical attention has been given to ways in which anatomical bodies facilitated a fraternal discourse broadly shared by artists and physicians there after the Civil War. By discourse I mean a network of related ideas and representations deployed by individuals from different disciplines - individuals (such as Eakins and Forbes) operating according to their own specific disciplinary needs while nonetheless constructing, and partaking of, a common cultural pattern. Broadly speaking, the fraternal discourse uniting Eakins, Forbes, and their respective professional circles over the anatomical body resembles a homosocial structure such as that identified by literary historian Eve Kosofsky Sedgwick in English fiction, wherein male characters frequently established relation-ships through a legitimating, yet subordinate, female object of desire. For Sedgwick, "in the presence of a woman who can be seen as pitiable or contemptible, men are able to exchange power and to confirm each other s value even in the context of remaining inequalities in their power." T he structure that Sedgwick describes therefore addresses not only the subjugation of women, but also the corollary effect of establishing fictive relations of equality among men. According to Sedgwick, "The sexually pitiable or contemptible female figure is a solvent that not only facilitates the relative democratization that grows up with capitalism and cash exchange, but goes a long way - for the men whom she leaves bonded together - toward palliating its gaps and failures." This "male traffic in women," as Sedgwick describes it, would seem to relate historically and structurally to Sappol's "traffic of dead bodies." Expanding on Sedgwick's insight, I contend that the anatomical body per-formed a similar bonding and palliating role for Eakins, Forbes, and their students, whose fraternal discourse likewise hinged upon a mediating subal-tern. Whereas Sedgwick focuses on a subaltern female, I propose here a subordinate figure encompassing but not limited to woman, broadly defined by class rather than gender. By thus modifying Sedgwick's terms, I do not wish to undermine the strength or historical specificity of her feminist interpretation so much as extend its considerable critical power in a direction already implied by her comments regarding the "gaps and failures" of capitalism. In Philadelphia, an industrial metropolis that witnessed massive socioeconomic trans-formation during the postbellum period, anatomical fraternity offered certain white male professionals a communal refuge from challenges to their traditional authority wrought by emancipation, immigration, labor unrest, the women's movement, and other modern phenomena, including the inequalities of capitalism. Although the anatomical body was not always female, like Sedgwick's go-between it tended historically to become a binding object of epistemological, even romantic, desire among men in nineteenth-century dissection rooms. Noting Edgar Allan Poe's dictum that "the death of a beautiful woman is ... the most poetical topic in the world," Sappol catalogs numerous literary and historical instances of desire for cadavers in American anatomical discourse of the period, a desire often associated with obsession and violence. From Sappol's account, a complex picture emerges of nineteenth-century anatomical speci-mens functioning as fetish objects of a sort, not necessarily gendered distinctly female, yet nonetheless helping fraternal white males negotiate the traumas of modernity. As with the Freudian fetish, desire directed toward the anatomical body was a contradictory mix of repetitive fascination and revulsion, longing and disavowal. If the anatomical body was not always female, nor was it necessarily black. Nevertheless, racial otherness often factored into the social construction of specimens as belonging to a benighted class. Acknowledging this racial dimension certainly does not preclude or cancel out the aforementioned fraternal desire for such specimens. The long history of white male appropriation of black culture and corporeality, as in the institution of blackface minstrelsy, confirms this. Here the scholarship of cultural historian Eric Lott provides further theoretical nuance and interpretive guidance. Although minstrelsy and anatomy obviously were different nineteenth-century institutions, Lott s subtle analysis of the former in his book Love and Theft reveals a dialectical complexity of racial dynamics that finds uncanny echoes in the anatomical world of Eakins and Forbes. Whereas working-class white men smeared their faces with burnt cork and adopted other bodily signs of blackness in order (paradoxically) to confirm their whiteness, medical and artistic professionals achieved a roughly similar result through frequent, direct, and prolonged physical contact with black bodies, cutting them open and mingling with their muscles, en-trails, and skeletons. Both acts - smearing and cutting blackness - constituted (to quote Lott) "small but significant crimes against settled ideas of racial demarcation." For Lott, the fraternal, appropriative gestures of minstrelsy functioned in a contradictory manner by simultaneously constructing white identity and illustrating "how precariously nineteenth-century white working people lived their whiteness," insofar as they repetitively adopted guises of otherness. For me, the procedures of anatomy suggest a similar precariousness in the identities of white professionals such as Eakins and Forbes, who enjoyed a privileged social status but were not too squeamish about difference to immerse their hands literally into the bodies of others, black or poor. Saying this does not undo their real, historical position of power vis-a-vis anatomical specimens, but it helps us better understand the dialectical relation between dissector and dissected. Two Scandals During the 1880s both Eakins and Forbes became lightning rods of public outrage in separate anatomical scandals that touched a common nerve of cul-tural anxiety in Philadelphia over the specimen body. Art historians are familiar with the Eakins affair of 1886, when he was forced to resign his professor-ship at the Pennsylvania Academy after removing the loincloth of a living male model while lecturing on anatomy to a mixed class of male and female students- an incident covered extensively in Philadelphia newspapers. For several years leading up to that scandal, trouble had been brewing between Eakins and academy administrators over his unusual insistence on training art students to dissect human cadavers. In 1884, before the scandal erupted, the artist s friend Earl Shinn wrote in The Art Amateur that "Mr. Eakins is an accomplished anatomist" under whose leadership the academy "affords abundant, not to say super-abundant, opportunities for dissection." Cadavers dissected at the academy came from the same public pool of poor and/or unclaimed bodies that supplied medical schools. We do not know the specific identity of the living male model notoriously revealed in 1886, but it could have been one of Eakins s students, for he preferred their bodies to those of prostitutes and other working-class people typically hired to pose. To Eakins, using students (and even occasionally himself) made sense, but it chafed against the sensibilities of some attending his lectures as well as their parents, for whom ^//models - living or dead - by definition belonged to an inferior class. In other words, Eakins blurred accepted social distinctions and thereby disclosed a degree of precariousness (following Lott) regarding professional class identity. The bonding, fraternal functions of the anatomical body (following Sedgwick) will become apparent momentarily. The other Philadelphia anatomical scandal occurred a few years earlier, in December 1882, when Forbes, then professor of anatomy at Jefferson, was indicted on charges of conspiring with a group of body snatchers to steal cadavers from Lebanon Cemetery, an African American burial ground in South Philadelphia. The cemetery, which no longer exists, was located near the intersection of South Broad Street and Passyunk Avenue, just north of The Neck - a marshy, polluted area downriver that provided a backdrop for sev-eral hunting pictures (featuring black laborers) produced by Eakins between 1874 and 188 1. Although Forbes eventually was acquitted, ostensibly for lack of evidence directly implicating him in the conspiracy, there was no question that his alleged accomplices had been delivering stolen corpses to Jefferson, as they were caught red-handed with six black bodies and keys to the doctor s anatomy laboratory. Nor was there much doubt- especially among African Americans in the city - that the practice had been going on at Lebanon Cem-etery for years. Despite Forbes's acquittal, his sensational arrest and trial shocked the city by publicly exposing an active black market supporting its hallowed medical establishment.

</file>

<file= AmE06_F20>

In the aftermath of Super Bowl XXVII, however, the Cowboys became the most omnipresent group of athletes the country had seen since 1987, when the New York Giants beat Denver for the title and promptly had five players release autobiographies (one has not lived until he reads Simms to McConkey: Blood, Sweat, and Gatorade).
Cowboy players made paid appearances at supermarket openings and at shopping malls; at dance clubs and at roller rink birthday parties. They did radio spots, hosted TV specials, served as MCs. Jimmy Johnson wrote a "tell-all" book that told little. Tom Vanderveer, mayor of Troy, Texas, announced that the city council was considering changing the town's name to "Troy Aikman."
In what surely goes down as one of the most questionable decisions of his otherwise wondrous career, Aikman, along with Novacek, special teams coach Joe Avezzano, and former Cowboys Randy White and Walt Garrison, formed a country music group, The Boys. Their album, Everybody Wants to Be a Cowboy, mixes horrific songs and horrific singers into one uniquely horrific package. The first single, "Oklahoma Nights," was sung by Aikman, whose vocal stylings are reminiscent of a cat choking on a lug nut.
Of all the events that merged to form Cowboy Mania, the one that remains most curious is the rise of Kenny Gant, a third-year defensive back from Albany State who led all nonstarters with 54 tackles during the '92 season and tied for the team lead with 3 interceptions. Though Gant excelled on special teams and as a nickel back, he was little more than an average NFL player. "Truthfully, I just wanted to hang on," he says. "When I was drafted I went to a Wendy's in Albany, Georgia, to celebrate with a hamburger. I was small-scale like that."
What Gant did possess, however, was perfect timing.
During practices early in the 1992 season, Gant noticed that Kevin Smith, his fellow defensive back, would celebrate a good play by bending an arm at the elbow and holding it up to his helmet. Smith termed it "the Shark Fin," and said the defensive backs at Texas A&M, his alma mater, used it to show off. "In practice all of us started flashing the fin, just sorta goofing around," says Gant. "But it wasn't like there was anything to it." That is, until the fifth game of the '92 season, when Gant sprinted down the field on a punt, charged Seattle's Robb Thomas, and hammered him with a forearm to the head. As Gant leapt to his feet, he bent his right arm, held it to his noggin, and swayed it back and forth while bobbing his rear end. The Texas Stadium crowd roared with delight.
After the game Gant was surrounded by reporters, intrigued by the newest dance sensation. Gant smiled. He was a fun-loving guy who enjoyed jogging onto the practice field wearing only a jock or riding naked through the locker room in the laundry cart or hopping over a fence to sneak onto safety Bill Bates's ranch for a quiet evening of fishing or hitting the clubs with teammates. Now, there was the Selachimorpha thing. "I just had my shark fin up," he told the press with a chuckle. "We weren't letting nothing get by."
A craze had arrived. In the aftermath of the Super Bowl, Gant's celebrity reached a whole new level. He was now, officially, "The Shark." There were Shark Dance posters. Shark Dance T-shirts. A local player hangout, the Cowboy Sports Café, served the Sharkbite -  a blue-tinted Long Island Iced Tea. Gant would visit a shopping mall and hear people holler his name while making a fin. "I'd be in restaurants eating and I'd look up from my food and some guy or some kid would be doing the Shark Dance," says Gant. "It's funny how one day you're anonymous and the next day you're huge. I loved it."
A couple of months after the Super Bowl, Gant was hired by a Dallas attorney to appear at a pool party for son's thirteenth birthday. Gant arrived in a suit and tie and performed his Shark Dance to the delight of the approximately thirty youths in attendance. He then turned to the father and asked to borrow a pair of swim trunks.
"Kenny," the man said, "you don't have to . . ."
The Shark insisted.
"I had on a pair of this guy's nut-huggers," laughs Gant, "and I jumped right in."
The strangest request came from the Jewish family that hired Gant to appear at their son's bar mitzvah. A deeply religious Pentecostal from the decidedly non-Jewish town of Lakeland, Florida, Gant grew up attending church on Sundays, Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays, serving as a drummer in the congregation's band, and watching in awe as many around him spoke in tongues. Brad Mitzvee? What the heck was a Brad Mitzvee?
"Man, was that fun," says Gant. "I helped light the candles, I wore a yarmulke, I did the Shark Dance, I line-danced. I got paid but I would have done it for free."
Beyond the Shark appearances and country albums and Brad Mitzvees, what best symbolized the Cowboys' rise from contenders to superstars was the Hoopsters, the team's offseason "charity" basketball squad. Formed in the early 1970s by wide receiver Drew Pearson, the Hoopsters' initial mission was to travel the state of Texas promoting the Cowboys, rewarding fans for their undying support during the season and making some cash on the side. The Hoopsters would come to town, play the River Oaks Volunteer Fire Department or the Lubbock Police Department or the faculty of Atlee Parr High School and donate most of the proceeds to charity. The games would be competitive, but never crossed the line.
Any lingering philanthropic intentions dissipated in the mid-1980s, when a linebacker named Eugene Lockhart took charge of the Hoopsters and ran the operation less like a goodwill tour and a bit more like a Hollywood agent. The Hoopsters began demanding exorbitant appearance fees for their participation. Instead of COME OUT AND SEE THE COWBOYS RAISE MONEY FOR A GOOD CAUSE! promotional signs should have read COME OUT AND SEE THE COWBOYS RAISE MONEY FOR A GOOD CAUSE -  MINUS THE $30,000 WE'VE GOTTA PAY THEM TO BE HERE, THE FOOD WE'RE REQUIRED TO SUPPLY, AND THE FIRST- CLASS HOTEL SUITES THEY PROBABLY WANT, TOO. "Lockhart was not a good guy," says Anthony "Paco" Montoya, who managed the Hoopsters and worked as a gofer for several players through the 1990s. "He was a bully who did things the wrong way." 
In 1988, a basketball-loving rookie named Michael Irvin led a Hoopsters revolt, literally wrestling control of the team from Lockhart in an Odessa, Texas, hotel room. "When it was over there was lots of broken furniture," says Montoya, "and the Hoopsters had a new leader."
Yet the sex-seeking, money-hungry, fame-addicted wide receiver was hardly a Saint. Irvin had no trouble putting the Hoopsters to his own use, whether that meant demanding a $10,000 personal appearance fee for a two-hour "charitable" basketball game or securing perks that would have put the Rat Pack to shame. On May 10, 1993, the Hoopsters were scheduled to play a Friday night exhibition at Baylor University that was to raise money for the resurrection of Paul Quinn College, a small, traditionally black school. As the game was set to begin, an organizer informed Irvin that he did not have the $25,000 check the Hoopsters required. Instead of staying and, say, playing for less money to entertain the 240 spectators, Irvin, Harper, Kevin Smith, Jimmie Jones, and the rest of the Cowboys bolted. Such behavior came as no surprise to Rodney Dodd, president of the Little Dribblers in Fairfield, Texas, who had presented the Hoopsters with a $5,600 check for a March 5 appearance. Less than a week before the game, Dodd was told the fee had increased to $7,000, plus expenses. "I called [Irvin] back and told him we didn't want them," said Dodd at the time. "To this day we've never seen our fifty-six hundred dollars."
Unlike the old Hoopsters of Pearson and Everson Walls, Irvin's priorities were money, winning, and postgame sexual pursuits. Whether playing a bunch of beefy marines at a military base or a flabby gaggle of middle-aged teachers in a dimly let gymnasium, the Hoopsters had to win. That's why, in a May 1991 game against the staff of a Dallas radio station, KKDA-AM, Irvin became so incensed by a questionable foul call that he allegedly grabbed the referee - an unpaid volunteer named Willie Summerling -  and showered him with obscenities. When Summerling warned Irvin to dial back his antics, the player slugged him in the mouth, knocking loose a dental plate. There were two thousand spectators in attendance, many of them children.
With the Cowboys' on-field successes came increased Hoopster requests. They flew to Mexico City for a game, flew to Las Vegas for another. They played the Redskins in Washington, engaged in two or three mini-brawls, and left with a hard-fought 3-point triumph. "Once we played these soldiers in Killeen and we needed an escort out of the stadium," says Kevin Smith. "The other team wanted to fight some Cowboys to prove their manhood, and as time ran out I hit a three-pointer for the win. That was pretty darn sweet."
Though players generally joined the Hoopsters in the spirit of camaraderie, what proved to be the greatest perk -  especially in the shadow of the '92 season -  was a dazzling postgame buffet of booze, marijuana, cocaine, and sex. Whether the Hoopsters won or lost, following each contest they headed either for the hottest nightspot in town or to their hotel, which would be transformed into Club Hoopsters. Though the Cowboys were a big deal in Dallas, they were larger- than- life in smaller towns across the state and country, where a visit from the Super Bowl champions was akin to a return of Elvis. Kids turned out to see their sports heroes. Men turned out to see their sports heroes too. But women -  well, mounds of women came out to gain a firsthand physical experience. "It didn't matter if you were a dope dealer, a Channel 5 TV reporter, a judge on the U.S. District Court," says Newton. "You weren't getting the women the Cowboys were."
If you were hot, you might get to spend the night with a player. If you were sexy, you might even end up on the Hoopsters' private airplane. If you were two lesbians looking to put on a show, you might be allowed to fly the jet. "That's when it really got crazy," says Montoya, who traveled with the team. "To call those flights 'off the hook' doesn't do anything justice. I don't think there's a word for what went on. We filled those planes with more women than we did players, and they were willing to do anything."
Anything?
"Absolutely anything."
It was here, 30,000 feet above the ground, that Alvin Harper earned the nickname "Freaky Harp." Though married to Jamise, his college sweetheart from the University of Tennessee, Harper never met a groupie, a stripper, a cheerleader he wouldn't have sex with. In a feat that left teammates stunned, Harper was banned from the Men's Club of Dallas for having sex in a phone booth. To be a Cowboy star in the 1990s and have someone demand you leave his strip joint -  well, that took work.
On the Hoopsters' chartered airplane, there were no bouncers, no wives, no coaches. Just loose women looking to party with the Super Bowl champions. Cowboy players would have sex in the main cabin, sex in the bathrooms. Irvin, the ringleader of all things erotic, would direct various arrangements -  women on women, two women on a teammate, three women on a teammate. "There was nothing Mike couldn't think of," says Montoya. "He had quite the imagination."
"I'll tell you one thing," says Clayton Holmes, a defensive back and Hoopsters guard.

</file>

<file= AmE06_F21>

Seventeen years ago my youngest child was badly  -  almost fatally  -  injured. This is a story I have told before, but its meaning for me continues to change and to deepen.
That is also true of the story I have tried to tell for many years about the global environment. It was during that interlude 17 years ago when I started writing my first book, Earth in the Balance. It was because of my son's accident and the way it abruptly interrupted the flow of my days and hours that I began to rethink everything, especially what my priorities had been. Thankfully, my son has long since recovered completely. But it was during that traumatic period that I made at least two enduring changes: I vowed always to put my family first, and I also vowed to make the climate crisis the top priority of my professional life.
Unfortunately, in the intervening years, time has not stood still for the global environment. The pace of destruction has worsened and the urgent need for a response has grown more acute.
The fundamental outline of the climate crisis story is much the same now as it was then. The relationship between human civilization and the Earth has been utterly transformed by a combination of factors, including the population explosion, the technological revolution, and a willingness to ignore the future consequences of our present actions. The underlying reality is that we are colliding with the planet's ecological system, and its most vulnerable components are crumbling as a result.
I have learned much more about this issue over the years. I have read and listened to the world's leading scientists, who have offered increasingly dire warnings. I have watched with growing concern as the crisis gathers strength even more rapidly than anyone expected.
In every corner of the globe  -  on land and in water, in melting ice and disappearing snow, during heat waves and droughts, in the eyes of hurricanes and in the tears of refugees  -  the world is witnessing mounting and undeniable evidence that nature's cycles are profoundly changing.
I have learned that, beyond death and taxes, there is at least one absolutely indisputable fact: Not only does human-caused global warming exist, but it is also growing more and more dangerous, and at a pace that has made it a planetary emergency.
Less than a year after Earth in the Balance was published, I was elected vice president  -  ultimately serving for eight years. I had the opportunity, as a member of the Clinton-Gore administration, to pursue an ambitious agenda of new policies addressing the climate crisis.
At that time I discovered, firsthand, how fiercely Congress would resist the changes we were urging them to make, and I watched with growing dismay as the opposition got much, much worse after the takeover of Congress in 1994 by the Republican party and its newly aggressive conservative leaders.
I organized and held countless events to spread public awareness about the climate crisis, and to build more public support for congressional action. I also learned numerous lessons about the significant changes in recent decades in the nature and quality of America's "conversation of democracy." Specifically, that entertainment values have transformed what we used to call news, and individuals with independent voices are routinely shut out of the public discourse.
In 1997 I helped achieve a breakthrough at the negotiations in Kyoto, Japan, where the world drafted a groundbreaking treaty whose goal is to control global warming pollution. But then I came home and faced an uphill battle to gain support for the treaty in the U.S. Senate.
In 2000 I ran for president. It was a long and hard-fought campaign that was ended by a 5 - 4 decision in the Supreme Court to halt the counting of votes in the key state of Florida. This was a hard blow.
I then watched George W. Bush get sworn in as president. In his very first week in office, President Bush reversed a campaign pledge to regulate carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions  -  a pledge that had helped persuade many voters that he was genuinely concerned about matters relating to the environment.
Soon after the election, it became clear that the Bush-Cheney administration was determined to block any policies designed to help limit global warming pollution. They launched an all-out effort to roll back, weaken, and  -  wherever possible  -  completely eliminate existing laws and regulations. Indeed, they even abandoned Bush's pre-election rhetoric about global warming, announcing that, in the president's opinion, global warming wasn't a problem at all.
As the new administration was getting underway, I had to begin making decisions about what I would do in my own life. After all, I was now out of a job. This certainly wasn't an easy time, but it did offer me the chance to make a fresh start  -  to step back and think about where I should direct my energies.
At first, I thought I might run for president again, but over the last several years I have discovered that there are other ways to serve, and that I am really enjoying them.
I am also determined to continue to make speeches on public policy, and  -  as I have at almost every crossroads moment in my life  -  to make the global environment my central focus.
After the 2000 election, one of the things I decided to do was to start giving my slide show on global warming again. I had first put it together at the same time I began writing Earth in the Balance, and over the years I have added to it and steadily improved it to the point where I think it makes a compelling case, at least for most audiences, that humans are the cause of most of the global warming that is taking place, and that unless we take quick action the consequences for our planetary home could become irreversible.
For the last six years, I have been traveling around the world, sharing the information I have compiled with anyone who would listen. I have traveled to colleges, to small towns and big cities. More and more, I have begun to feel that I am changing minds, but it is a slow process.
In the spring of 2005, I gave my slide show to a large gathering in Los Angeles organized and hosted by environmental activist (and film producer) Laurie David. Afterward, she and another producer, Lawrence Bender, suggested that I ought to consider making a movie out of my presentation. I was skeptical about the idea because I couldn't see how my slide show would translate to film. But they later came to another slide show and brought Jeff Skoll, founder and CEO of Participant Productions, who expressed interest in backing the project. They also introduced me to a highly talented film veteran, Davis Guggenheim, who expressed interest in directing it. Later, Scott Burns joined the production team and Lesley Chilcott became the co-producer and legendary "trail boss."
My principal concern in all this was that the translation of the slide show into a film not sacrifice the central role of science for entertainment's sake. But the more I talked with this extraordinary group, and felt their deep commitment to exactly the same goals I was pursuing, the more convinced I became that the movie was a good idea. If I wanted to reach the maximum number of people quickly, and not just continue talking to a few hundred people a night, a movie was the way to do it. That film, also titled An Inconvenient Truth, has now been made, and I am really excited about it.
But the idea for a book on the climate crisis actually came first. It was my wife, Tipper, who first suggested that I put together a book with pictures and graphics to make the whole message easier to follow, combining many elements from my slide show with all of the new original material I have compiled over the last few years.
Tipper and I are, by the way, giving 100 percent of whatever profits come to us from the book  -  and from the movie  -  to a nonprofit, bipartisan effort to move public opinion in the United States to support bold action to confront global warming.
After more than 30 years as a student of the climate crisis, I have a lot to share. I have tried to tell this story in a way that will interest all kinds of readers. My hope is that those who read the book and see the film will begin to feel, as I have for a long time, that global warming is not just about science and that it is not just a political issue. It is really a moral issue.
Although it is true that politics at times must play a crucial role in solving this problem, this is the kind of challenge that ought to completely transcend partisanship. So whether you are a Democrat or a Republican, whether you voted for me or not, I very much hope that you will sense that my goal is to share with you both my passion for the Earth and my deep sense of concern for its fate. It is impossible to feel one without the other when you know all the facts.
I also want to convey my strong feeling that what we are facing is not just a cause for alarm, it is paradoxically also a cause for hope. The Chinese expression for "crisis" consists of two characters side by side. The first is the symbol for "danger," the second the symbol for "opportunity."
The climate crisis is, indeed, extremely dangerous. In fact it is a true planetary emergency. Two thousand scientists, in a hundred countries, working for more than 20 years in the most elaborate and well-organized scientific collaboration in the history of humankind, have forged an exceptionally strong consensus that all the nations on Earth must work together to solve the crisis of global warming.
The voluminous evidence now strongly suggests that unless we act boldly and quickly to deal with the underlying causes of global warming, our world will undergo a string of terrible catastrophes, including more and stronger storms like Hurricane Katrina, in both the Atlantic and the Pacific.
We are melting the North Polar ice cap and virtually all of the mountain glaciers in the world. We are destabilizing the massive mound of ice on Greenland and the equally enormous mass of ice propped up on top of islands in west Antarctica, threatening a worldwide increase in sea levels of as much as 20 feet.
The list of what is now endangered due to global warming also includes the stable configuration of ocean and wind currents that has been in place since before the first cities were built almost 10,000 years ago.
We are dumping so much CO2 into the environment that we have literally changed the relationship between the Earth and the Sun (see chart in the Image Gallery). So much of that CO2 is being absorbed into the oceans that if we continue at the current rate we will increase the saturation of calcium carbonate to levels that will prevent formation of corals and interfere with the making of shells by any sea creature.
Global warming, along with the cutting and burning of forests and other critical habitats, is causing the loss of living species at a level comparable to the extinction event that wiped out the dinosaurs 65 million years ago. That event was believed to have been caused by a giant asteroid. This time it is not an asteroid colliding with the Earth and wreaking havoc; it is us.

Last year, the national academies of science in the 11 most influential nations came together to jointly call on every nation to "acknowledge that the threat of climate change is clear and increasing" and declare that the "scientific understanding of climate change is now sufficiently clear to justify nations taking prompt action."

</file>

<file= AmE06_F22>

Four-Legged Fiction
It used to be that when a writer bestowed human qualities on an animal - the ability to speak, for instance - it almost always meant trouble. George Orwell's menacing midcentury classic Animal Farm (Secker & Warburg, 1945), a satire on the development of the Russian Revolution, certainly set the tone for the four-legged fiction that soon followed. The terrifying fable begins with Old Major calling the barn animals together to tell them of his pig dream: "Now, comrades, what is the nature of this life of ours? Let us face it: our lives are miserable, laborious, and short ... no animal escapes the cruel knife in the end." 
Major is right about the life of the farm animal, but his real message (and Orwell's) is grander and darker - and reaches far beyond the animal kingdom: "Man is the only creature that consumes without producing," he continues. "He does not give milk, he does not lay eggs, he is too weak to pull the plough, he cannot run fast enough to catch rabbits. Yet he is lord of all the animals." What the animals mean to do, of course, is set things right. But soon enough, they mess everything up. 
Other walking, talking literary beasts that followed in Major's dark shadow include the canine in Mikhail Bulgakov's Heart of a Dog (Harvill Press, 1968), who gains human intelligence after a Moscow professor transplants human glands into the unfortunate canine's body, and the German cats in Art Spiegelman's graphic novel Maus: A Survivor's Tale, which won a Pulitzer Prize Special Award in 1992. 
Today, animal lit is broader in scope and occasionally even benevolent in nature. This variety is evident in the genre's more recent successes - among them, Paul Auster's austere dog tale, Timbuktu (Henry Holt, 1999), Sigrid Nunez's "mock biography" of Virginia Woolf's pet marmoset, Mitz: The Marmoset of Bloomsbury (HarperFlamingo, 1998), and Susan Fromberg Schaeffer's warm enchantment, The Autobiography of Foudini M. Cat (Knopf, 1997). 
Already this year, two wildly different novels featuring animal protagonists - one with dark Orwellian whiskers, the other with a softer, more fragile underbelly - join the menagerie: Verlyn Klinkenborg's Timothy; or, Notes of an Abject Reptile, published in February by Knopf, and Sam Savage's provocative debut novel Firmin: Adventures of a Metropolitan Lowlife, forthcoming next month from Coffee House Press. 
A direct descendent of Orwell's Animal Farm, Savage's Firmin begins as a lovely and harmless tale of a wayward rodent lost in Boston. At first, the incidents of plotted terror are manageable - a struggling mother with thirteen babies but only twelve teats, the endless hunt for food, the keeping safe and warm - but later in the novel, Firmin falls upon a dark fascination in the form of a human named Norman Shine, the owner of a hole-in-the-wall bookstore, Pembroke Books. Firmin takes to feeding himself (metaphorically and literally) on the Great Books, devouring the canon page by page. His rat lust leads him to Moby-Dick, Don Quixote, and Finnegans Wake. "My favorites were the Modern Library editions," Firmin says. "Recite them, then, say them slowly aloud and let them break your heart. Oliver Twist. Huckleberry Finn. The Great Gatsby. Dead Souls. Middlemarch. Alice in Wonderland. Fathers and Sons. The Grapes of Wrath. The Way of All Flesh. An American Tragedy. Peter Pan. The Red and the Black. Lady Chatterley's Lover." 
Firmin takes in the great stories and then, like Quixote himself, the sharp edges of his real life soften, and he regrets staying safely inside the artificial world of books. "The truth is, I have never been right in the head," Firmin admits. "Only, I don't charge windmills. I do worse: I dream of charging windmills, I long to charge windmills, and sometimes even imagine I have charged windmills." 
As the author says of the rat's literary habits, "He begins to read because he is lonely, and he is lonely because he is puny and shunted from his family, a minor freak from the get-go. As he reads he becomes at once less lonely - he has the companionship of books - and more alone - he grows both more freakish and more conscious of his solitude." 
Firmin takes a dark turn as the plot centers on the "renovation," or destruction, of Scollay Square, where Pembroke Books sits. With the impending demise of the bookstore, Firmin's fascination with its owner dims, and he takes up with Jerry Magoon, a down-and-out science fiction writer who lives above the store. Firmin and Magoon become the best of friends - and then, suddenly, the characters stumble into true tragedy. 
"A curious thing happens when we endow animals with human traits, whether dancing dogs in tutus or monkeys in little jackets," says Savage. "They become parodies, not ridiculous animals so much as ridiculous humans. ...  Firmin can deliver the most heartbreaking statements, and because he is a rat, they become simultaneously heartbreaking and ludicrous." 
On the other end of the animal-lit spectrum is Klinkenborg's naturalist treaty Timothy, which is uniquely and utterly un-Orwellian. In Timothy, the reader comes upon the deeply carved and finely imagined caverns of a tortoise's mind. Based upon Gilbert White's observations in his Natural History of Selborne, first published in 1789, Klinkenborg investigates the world in reverse: the tortoise observing the naturalist. 
The novel's narration is oddly animalistic, characterized by simple sentences and poetic stutters: "When autumn pinches, I dig. November darkens, fasting long since begun. ...  No rush. No rush. Ease in again. A last fitting. Air hole open. Stow legs. Retreat under roof of self. Under vault of ribs and spine." 
In Timothy, Klinkenborg does not journey into the natural world simply to shed new light on human life or to poke fun at the politics of people, but, rather, to allow readers to more completely consider that animal world as parallel to our own. "The two great motives of love and hunger yaw back and forth through Selborne, driving human and beast alike," he writes. 
When asked about the separation of humans and animals, Klinkenborg is unambiguous. "They're not separate at all, not in any way. Humans are animals and are subject to the fundamental environmental and population constraints that all other species on this planet are subject to," he says. "What sets us apart is that we love to believe we're not subject to those constraints." 
Whether the latest animal protagonists draw readers' attention to the startling similarities or the cruel differences between man and beast, it is clear that the legacy of Orwell's animal satire remains secure. Contemporary writers like Savage and Klinkenborg continue to use the animal kingdom to expose and investigate the human condition - borrowing from the cat and rat, tortoise and cow, to expose our flaws, fractures, and infinite follies. 
Joe Woodward is the author of Small Matters: A Year in Writing.

NEA Responds to "Reading at Risk"
by Kevin Canfield
NEWS AND TRENDS

In response to its 2004 report "Reading at Risk," which found that significantly fewer people read serious literature now than in years past, the National Endowment for the Arts (NEA) recently launched an ambitious program designed to reverse the trend. The Big Read, a joint project of the NEA and the Minneapolis-based nonprofit organization Arts Midwest, follows the template of the One Book program, developed in 1998 by the Washington Center for the Book in Seattle, in which teens and adults in one city are encouraged to read a specific book. 
As part of the pilot phase of the Big Read, which began in February, arts organizations, literary centers, and libraries in ten U.S. cities have each chosen a single book from four selected by the NEA and Arts Midwest: Harper Lee's To Kill a Mockingbird, F. Scott Fitzgerald's The Great Gatsby, Ray Bradbury's Fahrenheit 451, and Zora Neale Hurston's Their Eyes Were Watching God. The local organizations, working with the NEA and Arts Midwest, have received grants ranging from fifteen thousand dollars to forty thousand dollars to carry out project-related activities, which include promotional campaigns on television and radio, and public literary events featuring local celebrities. 
The ten cities participating in the pilot phase of the program were selected from a total of forty-five that applied. They are Little Rock, Arkansas (represented by the Arkansas Center for the Book); Enterprise, Oregon (Fishtrap, Inc.); Miami, Florida (Florida Center for the Literary Arts/Florida Center for the Book); Fresno, California (Fresno County Library); Huntsville, Alabama (Huntsville-Madison County Public Library); Buffalo (Just Buffalo Literary Center); Minneapolis (The Loft Literary Center); Boise, Idaho (Log Cabin Literary Center, Inc.); Brookings and Sioux Falls, South Dakota (South Dakota Center for the Book); and Topeka, Kansas (Topeka-Shawnee County Public Library). 
"These ten cities and towns have been really brave in signing on for our maiden voyage," says David Kipen, the former San Francisco Chronicle book editor and critic who was named the NEA's literature director last August. "Mistakes are going to be made; we're going to learn things. So I think it's really gutsy of them." Kipen says the NEA plans to evaluate the program's success after the pilot phase of the Big Read is complete, in May. The goal is to expand the program to a hundred cities by 2007. The list of books from which the cities can choose is also likely to grow. 
The NEA's "Reading at Risk" report, released in July 2004, revealed that the number of readers of literature - novels, short stories, poetry, and plays - was "in dramatic decline with fewer than half of American adults now reading literature." From 1982 to 2002, the study found, the number of literary readers in the United States dropped by ten percentage points, and the decline in the percentage of Americans who read literature appears to be quickening. "This report documents a national crisis," NEA Chairman Dana Gioia said at the time. "The decline in reading among every segment of the adult population reflects a general collapse in advanced literacy." 
Despite this decline, dozens of cities across the country, as well as others in the U.K., Australia, and Canada, have adopted One Book programs in the last six years. The initiatives have been successful in some places, but, for a variety of reasons, less so in others. Kipen says Chicago and Seattle are two cities that embraced their One Book programs, but that the idea did not catch on as well in Los Angeles. "What happens in too many cases," he says, "is that you have cities concerned with picking up the trash on time undertaking an ambitious reading initiative, and unfortunately it doesn't command the full attention of local officials. How could it? And, alas, it fails to live up to its organizers' hopes." 
How, then, does the NEA plan to ensure that the Big Read reaches potential readers? The key component, according to Kipen, is the NEA's partnerships with local arts organizations. "It's all very well to ignore a [program] when it's only coming at you from one direction. But when it's got its tentacles around you - not just from the city fathers but from some combination of the local library, the local arts center, the schools, the chamber of commerce, the newspapers, the public radio station, the public TV station, the commercial TV stations, and heaven knows who else - it's an octopus that becomes much harder to avoid," he says. "Partnerships don't take a huge outlay of money, either, just a bunch of citizens as scared as we are of turning into a nation without readers. When that's the alternative, you'd be surprised how willing folks are to put in a little overtime, whether in my office or around the country." 
Though the NEA won't know precisely what impact the Big Read might have until the next U.S. Census, in 2010, Kipen plans to travel to as many of the participating cities as possible to gather anecdotal results. "I want to see firsthand what works, what doesn't," he says. "I want to see the expression on somebody's face as he's realizing that good books aren't medicine - they're food." 
Kevin Canfield is a journalist in New York City.

</file>

<file= AmE06_F23>

By now it's an all-too-familiar story. On August 11, at a campaign rally in Breaks, Virginia, Allen pointed to a Webb campaign volunteer who was filming the event and shouted, "Let's give a welcome to macaca here. Welcome to America, and the real world of Virginia." It was a significant gaffe. The volunteer  -  a college student of Indian descent who was born and raised in northern Virginia  -  put his video on the web, and after a few days of circulating on the liberal blogs, it was on washingtonpost.com. On August 15, the Post ran a story on page A01 titled, "Allen Quip Provokes Outrage, Apology; Name Insults Webb Volunteer." 
The incident certainly merited coverage, but nothing like what was to follow. The Post followed up Tuesday's story (and accompanying editorial) with another front-page story on Wednesday. On Thursday, three stories in the Post were about the "macaca" incident, including one purporting to debunk Allen's excuse that "macaca" was a nickname referring to the volunteer's mohawk-style haircut. Style-section reporter Libby Copeland reported that the hairstyle in question was not a mohawk at all, but rather "a hybrid of the mullet and the 'faux-hawk,' a hipster look that peaks at the top of the head, reminiscent of the cartoon character Tintin."
As the Post continued to hammer away at the story, the Allen campaign exhumed an allegation that Webb had distributed anti-Semitic flyers during his primary campaign. The flyers, which Webb had approved, featured a caricature of his Jewish opponent with a big cigar and his pockets stuffed with cash. "Allen's campaign has responded to the incident by accusing Webb of tolerating anti-Semitism," Post reporters Tim Craig and Michael D. Shear wrote in an article the following Saturday titled "Allen Flap May Give A Boost To Webb; Reenergized Va. Democrats Gain Support."
As the campaign got dirtier, the Post exhausted every conceivable angle in order to keep the "macaca" story in the paper. First, it sought out the professional grievance groups ("For One Group, 'Macaca' Recalls Slurs After 9/11"). Then, it compared Allen's woes to those of other (Republican) politicians ("Comments Haunt Another Senator; Montana's Burns Joked About Latinos"). Finally  -  two weeks after the incident  -  the Post profiled Macaca himself ("Fairfax Native Says Allen's Words Stung").
Allen responded to the Post's "macaca" drumbeat with more allegations that Webb had made un-PC remarks of his own. This time, Allen seized upon an essay Webb had written in 1979 titled "Women Can't Fight" in which Webb expressed his strong opposition to women in combat. The Washington Post gave this story the headline, "Va. Senate Race Goes Negative on 1979 Essay"  -  as if the Webb campaign hadn't already gone negative by milking the "macaca" incident for weeks.
What came next made all that preceded it look like high-minded debate. On September 24, the liberal web magazine Salon.com reported that, according to several of Allen's college football teammates, he used the "N-word" in college. The Post picked up the story two days later, and two days after that it covered allegations that Webb had also used the "N-word" in college. Allen's accusers were admitted Democratic partisans, and Webb's accuser a Republican, but none of this stopped the Post or other mainstream media outlets from following them down into a gutter of unsubstantiated rumors.
After the "N-word" debacle, the Post took an even weirder swipe at Allen. After weeks of portraying him as a racist redneck, it published a 1,302-word article about how his "cowboy" image was nothing more than a "shtick" ("Will Sen. Allen's Cowboy Boots Fit Virginia Voters? Detractors Call Cowboy Image a Shtick").  As National Review's Byron York noted at the time, "Webb's senior advisor is the only detractor quoted in Shear's article, which features positive quotes from two present and former Allen staffers, plus one Allen fan."
Not content merely to portray Allen as a phony, the Post also tried to sell Webb as genuine and modest. Last week the Post published an article about Webb titled "Webb is Reluctant to Advertise Duty," in which Shear and Craig wrote that Webb is "uncomfortable talking about his personal story even if doing so could help him unseat Republican Sen. George Allen." NRO's John J. Miller pointed out that Shear and Craig must have missed the numerous photos and stories about Webb's service in Vietnam adorning his campaign website.
But perhaps the most bizarre instance of biased reporting came in the form of a soft profile of Webb in the Post's Style section. Webb told reporter Libby Copeland that he was displeased with the fact that "Towel-heads and rednecks became the easy villains in so many movies out there." Two things made this comment strange. First, as NRO's Greg Pollowitz has noted, Middle Easterners  -  "towel-heads," if you will  -  were the villains in a 2000 movie written by Webb called Rules of Engagement. Second, the Post let the matter pass without any kind of sanctimonious outcry. Based on its "macaca" coverage, one can only imagine the Post's reaction if George Allen had said something like this.
At first, the race between Allen and Webb looked like the kind of race policy wonks dream about. As governor of Virginia during the 1990s, Allen pulled off a trifecta of conservative reforms  -  abolishing parole, overhauling welfare, and establishing testing and standards in education  -  all while bringing billions of dollars of high-tech investment to the state. Jim Webb, Allen's Democratic challenger, is a decorated Vietnam veteran, former Reagan appointee and best-selling novelist. Each offered starkly different views of the war in Iraq, and the race initially held out the promise of lively debate on the most important issues facing the Senate.
Instead, it has degenerated into a disgraceful mud-slinging contest  -  a race to the bottom aided in no small part by the Washington Post.
Pelosi Ahead 

Everybody is predicting big gains for the Democrats in November. If they succeed in taking the House of Representatives, that means that Nancy Pelosi is in our future. There is a lot about her that is distinctive, notably that she would be the first woman serving as Speaker of the House, which incidentally would put her second, after the vice president, in line for the presidency. Exit Bush and Cheney simultaneously, enter President Nancy Pelosi, oh my God.
It's true, as she has several times said, that "people" don't know a great deal about her. Among other things, she serves the San Francisco constituency, which is happily unique. But her background is thoroughly political. Her father, Thomas D'Alesandro, was for many years the mayor of Baltimore, and one of her brothers also, though more briefly, served as mayor. The brief glimpses of Pelosi given on television recently show us one tough lady, but it pays for critics to remind themselves that she was overwhelmingly chosen as minority leader only four years ago. It is good fun to think that colleagues who'd have preferred someone else chose her for fear that otherwise she would train her unsparing eyes on them and hound them to death. 
 
Her directness of speech was a subject Lesley Stahl of CBS's 60 Minutes elected last week to emphasize, asking just how did she intend to achieve her goal of bringing civility back to Washington given the language she tends to use about Republicans. Pelosi, viewers were reminded, has called her Republican colleagues "immoral" and "corrupt," suggesting that they were backing a criminal enterprise. Stahl said: "I mean, you're one of the reasons we have to restore civility in the first place."
 
Pelosi raised her eyes in unconcern. "Well actually, when I called them those names I was being gentle. There are much worse things I could have said about them."
 
Now that is a cute forensic technique. It has two effects. The first is to diminish the seriousness of the charges already leveled. The second is to awaken interest in the charges being held back in deference to civility. What are the Republicans actually conspiring to accomplish that is more grievous than the immorality and corruption they are already, according to Ms. Pelosi, bringing in through their criminal enterprise?
 
Ms. Stahl didn't ask the Democratic leader what exactly were the graver crimes she might have imputed to the Republicans. She turned instead to the problems raised by the need to associate with criminals:  "If you're Speaker, I'm wondering how you'll work with [President Bush]." Pelosi had charged that Bush was "an incompetent leader."  Stahl remarks that the mere "sound" of such words is disruptive: "It even stings to hear it now. I mean, obviously, the two of you are bound to get along just great."
 
Pelosi gave a fine answer. "You know, we're professionals."  She repeated herself.  "We're professionals. You could go through a long list of things his [Bush's] surrogates have said about me. I know they have to do what they have to do, and they know I have to do what I have to do. And what I have to do is make a distinction in the public that's between the Democrats and the Republicans in order to win. This isn't personal." 
 
"It sounds personal."
 
"This isn't personal."
 
"[You say] he's incompetent - "
 
"Well, I think he is."
 
"Well that's personal."
 
"Well, I'm sorry, that's his problem."
 
"How does this raise the level of civility?"  Stahl is yielding to despair on the point.
 
"Well, we're in a political debate here. We didn't come here to have a tea party together, and toss a coin to see who would win on an issue.  I have very thick skin. I don't care what they say about me."
 
*    *   *
 
That is a very grand thing  -  to announce that the woman who may be the next Speaker of the House really doesn't care what is said about her. People who enter politics have to expect that there will be rough language ahead, used at their expense.  It is so, also, for (most) writers and other public figures. But Pelosi is advertising an indifference to necessary elements of democratic life, and this takes her one step further than giving evidence that her skin is thick. It moves the public concern to the meaning of words. If we are trained to attach no meaning to words used by Democrats about Republicans, and the other way around, we debase not merely language, but ideals. If Republicans in Congress are engaged in immoral and corrupt practices, then they should be replaced. Or  -  things they do should be given other names.
 
Speaker Pelosi will be heir to an important tradition, exercising an important role.  She should not begin with this profession of utter indifference to the language used to describe what she does, and indeed to describe her.
Spacing Out 

Almost 20 years to the day after the U.S.-Soviet summit in Reykjavik, where Mikhail Gorbachev desperately but unsuccessfully tried to persuade Ronald Reagan to abandon the Strategic Defense Initiative, the Bush administration released a revised National Space Policy (NSP). The document, whose unclassified portion was made public on October 6, commits the United States "to the exploration and use of outer space by all nations for peaceful purposes." It also promises to "deny, if necessary, adversaries the use of space capabilities hostile to U.S. national interests." Because America relies so heavily on satellites for national security, economic activity, and scientific research, these are important priorities.
Yet a domestic coalition of liberals and peaceniks that has consistently opposed ballistic-missile defense since the early days of SDI is trying to make the NSP controversial. The Center for Defense Information, whose board of advisers includes such military experts as Ben Cohen of Ben & Jerry's and the actor Paul Newman, has condemned the new document for its "tonality." 
They must resort to such trivialities because the substance of the latest NSP isn't much different from the version issued by the Clinton administration in 1996. This earlier document called for "assuring that hostile forces cannot prevent our own use of space" and "countering, if necessary, space-systems and services used for hostile purposes."

</file>

<file= AmE06_F24>

The Greatest Journey
The genes of people today tell of our ancestors' trek out of Africa to the far corners of the globe.
Everybody loves a good story, and when it's finished, this will be the greatest one ever told. It begins in Africa with a group of hunter-gatherers, perhaps just a few hundred strong. It ends some 200,000 years later with their six and a half billion descendants spread across the Earth, living in peace or at war, believing in a thousand different deities or none at all, their faces aglow in the light of campfires and computer screens. 
In between is a sprawling saga of survival, movement, isolation, and conquest, most of it unfolding in the silence of prehistory. Who were those first modern people in Africa? What compelled a band of their descendants to leave their home continent as little as 50,000 years ago and expand into Eurasia? What routes did they take? Did they interbreed with earlier members of the human family along the way? When and how did humans first reach the Americas? 
In sum: Where do we all come from? How did we get to where we are today? For decades the only clues were the sparsely scattered bones and artifacts our ancestors left behind on their journeys. In the past 20 years, however, scientists have found a record of ancient human migrations in the DNA of living people. "Every drop of human blood contains a history book written in the language of our genes," says population geneticist Spencer Wells, a National Geographic explorer-in-residence. 
The human genetic code, or genome, is 99.9 percent identical throughout the world. What's left is the DNA responsible for our individual differences - in eye color or disease risk, for example - as well as some that serves no apparent function at all. Once in an evolutionary blue moon, a random, harmless mutation can occur in one of these functionless stretches, which is then passed down to all of that person's descendants. Generations later, finding that same mutation, or marker, in two people's DNA indicates that they share the same ancestor. By comparing markers in many different populations, scientists can trace their ancestral connections. 
In most of the genome, these minute changes are obscured by the genetic reshuffling that takes place each time a mother and father's DNA combine to make a child. Luckily a couple of regions preserve the telltale variations. One, called mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA), is passed down intact from mother to child. Similarly, most of the Y chromosome, which determines maleness, travels intact from father to son.
The accumulated mutations in your mtDNA and (for males) your Y chromosome are only two threads in a vast tapestry of people who have contributed to your genome. But by comparing the mtDNA and Y chromosomes of people from various populations, geneticists can get a rough idea of where and when those groups parted ways in the great migrations around the planet.
In the mid-1980s the late Allan Wilson and colleagues at the University of California, Berkeley, used mtDNA to pinpoint humanity's ancestral home. They compared mtDNA from women around the world and found that women of African descent showed twice as much diversity as their sisters. Since the telltale mutations seem to occur at a steady rate, modern humans must have lived in Africa twice as long as anywhere else. Scientists now calculate that all living humans are related to a single woman who lived roughly 150,000 years ago in Africa, a "mitochondrial Eve." She was not the only woman alive at the time, but if geneticists are right, all of humanity is linked to Eve through an unbroken chain of mothers.
Mitochondrial Eve was soon joined by "Y chromosome Adam," an analogous father of us all, also from Africa. Increasingly refined DNA studies have confirmed this opening chapter of our story over and over: All the variously shaped and shaded people of Earth trace their ancestry to African hunter-gatherers. 
Looking more closely at DNA markers in Africa, scientists may have found traces of those founders. Ancestral DNA markers turn up most often among the San people of southern Africa and the Biaka Pygmies of central Africa, as well as in some East African tribes. The San and two of the East African tribes also speak languages that feature a repertoire of unique sounds, including clicks. Perhaps these far-flung people pay witness to an expansion of our earliest ancestors within Africa, like the fading ripples from a pebble dropped in a pond.
What seems virtually certain now is that at a remarkably recent date - probably between 50,000 and 70,000 years ago - one small wavelet from Africa lapped up onto the shores of western Asia. All non-Africans share markers carried by those first emigrants, who may have numbered just a thousand people.
Some archaeologists think the migration out of Africa marked a revolution in behavior that also included more sophisticated tools, wider social networks, and the first art and body ornaments. Perhaps some kind of neurological mutation had led to spoken language and made our ancestors fully modern, setting a small band of them on course to colonize the world. But other scientists see finely wrought tools and other traces of modern behavior scattered around Africa long before those first steps outside the continent. "It's not a 'revolution' if it took 200,000 years," says Alison Brooks of George Washington University. 
Whatever tools and cognitive skills the emigrants packed with them, two paths lay open into Asia. One led up the Nile Valley, across the Sinai Peninsula, and north into the Levant. But another also beckoned. Seventy thousand years ago the Earth was entering the last ice age, and sea levels were sinking as water was locked up in glaciers. At its narrowest, the mouth of the Red Sea between the Horn of Africa and Arabia would have been only a few miles wide. Using primitive watercraft, modern humans could have crossed over while barely getting their feet wet.
Once in Asia, genetic evidence suggests, the population split. One group stalled temporarily in the Middle East, while the other followed the coast around the Arabian Peninsula, India, and beyond. Each generation may have pushed just a couple of miles farther. 
"The movement was probably imperceptible," says Spencer Wells, who heads the National Geographic Society's Genographic Project, a global effort to refine the picture of early migrations (see page 70). "It was less of a journey and probably more like walking a little farther down the beach to get away from the crowd." 
Over the millennia, a few steps a year and a few hops by boat added up. The wanderers had reached southeastern Australia by 45,000 years ago, when a man was buried at a site called Lake 
Mungo. Artifact-bearing soil layers beneath the burial could be as old as 50,000 years - the earliest evidence of modern humans far from Africa. 
No physical trace of these people has been found along the 8,000 miles from Africa to Australia - all may have vanished as the sea rose after the Ice Age. But a genetic trace endures. A few indigenous groups on the Andaman Islands near Myanmar, in Malaysia, and in Papua New Guinea - as well as almost all Australian Aborigines - carry signs of an ancient mitochondrial lineage, a trail of genetic bread crumbs dropped by the early migrants. 
People in the rest of Asia and Europe share different but equally ancient mtDNA and Y-chromosome lineages, marking them as descendants of the other, stalled branch of the African exodus. At first, rough terrain and the Ice Age climate blocked further progress. Europe, moreover, was a stronghold of the Neandertals, descendants of a much earlier migration of pre-modern humans out of Africa. 
Finally, perhaps 40,000 years ago, modern humans advanced into the Neandertals' territory. Overlapping layers of Neandertal and early modern human artifacts at a cave in France suggest that the two kinds of humans could have met. 
How these two peoples - the destined parvenu and the doomed caretaker of a continent - would have interacted is a potent mystery. Did they eye each other with wonder or in fear? Did they fight, socialize, or dismiss each other as alien beings?
All we know is that as modern humans and distinctly more sophisticated toolmaking spread into Europe, the once ubiquitous Neandertals were squeezed into ever shrinking pockets of habitation that eventually petered out completely. On current evidence, the two groups interbred rarely, if at all. Neither mtDNA from Neandertal fossils nor modern human DNA bears any trace of an ancient mingling of the bloodlines. 
About the same time as modern humans pushed into Europe, some of the same group that had paused in the Middle East spread east into Central Asia. Following herds of game, skirting mountain ranges and deserts, they reached southern Siberia as early as 40,000 years ago. As populations diverged and became isolated, their genetic lineages likewise branched and rebranched. But the isolation was rarely if ever complete. "People have always met other people, found them attractive, and had children," says molecular anthropologist Theodore Schurr of the University of Pennsylvania. 
Schurr's specialty is the peopling of the Americas - one of the last and most contentious chapters in the human story. The subject seems to attract fantastic theories (Native Americans are the descendants of the ancient Israelites or the lost civilization of Atlantis) as well as ones tinged with a political agenda. The "Caucasoid" features of a 9,500-year-old skull from Washington State called Kennewick Man, for instance, have been hailed as proof that the first Americans came from northern Europe. 
In fact most scientists agree that today's Native Americans descend from ancient Asians who crossed from Siberia to Alaska in the last ice age, when low sea level would have exposed a land bridge between the continents. But there's plenty of debate about when they came and where they originated in Asia. 
For decades the first Americans were thought to have arrived around 13,000 years ago as the Ice Age eased, opening a path through the ice covering Canada. But a few archaeologists claimed to have evidence for an earlier arrival, and two early sites withstood repeated criticism: the Meadow-croft Shelter in Pennsylvania, now believed to be about 16,000 years old, and Monte Verde in southern Chile, more than 14,000 years old. 
The DNA of living Native Americans can help settle some of the disputes. Most carry markers that link them unequivocally to Asia. The same markers cluster in people who today inhabit the Altay region of southern Siberia, suggesting it was the starting point for a journey across the land bridge. So far, the genetic evidence doesn't show whether North and South America were populated in a single, early migration or two or three distinct waves, and it suggests only a rough range of dates, between 20,000 and 15,000 years ago. Even the youngest of those dates is older than the opening of an inland route through the Canadian ice. So how did the first Americans get here? They probably traveled along the coast: perhaps a few hundred people hopping from one pocket of land and sustenance to the next, between a frigid ocean and a looming wall of ice. "A coastal route would have been the easiest way in," says Wells. "But it still would have been a hell of a trip." Beyond the glaciers lay immense herds of bison, mammoths, and other animals on a continent innocent of other intelligent predators. Pushed by population growth or pulled by the lure of game, people spread to the tip of South America in as little as a thousand years. 
The genes of today's Native Americans are helping to bring their ancestors' saga to life. But much of the story can only be imagined, says Jody Hey, a population geneticist at Rutgers University. "You can't tell it with the richness of what must have happened." With the settling of the Americas, modern humans had conquered most of the planet. When European explorers set sail 700 years ago, the lands they "discovered" were already full of people.

</file>

<file= AmE06_F25>

What does it mean for a form of government to be autonomous? Democracy is
not the same thing as popular sovereignty, a state of affairs in which the people
exercise ultimate control over their government. Popular sovereignty is compatible
with forms of popular fascism in which a dictator carries the genuine and spontaneous
approval of an entire people.1 Nor is democracy identical to
majoritarianism, in which a majority of the people exercise control over their government.
2 Although it is frequently said "any distinct restraint on majority power,
such as a principle of freedom of speech, is by its nature anti-democratic, antimajoritarian"
(Schauer 1982, 40-41), a majority of the electorate can implement
rules that are plainly inconsistent with democracy, as for example by voting a monarchy
into office. These examples suggest that popular sovereignty and
majoritarianism may be intimately associated with the practice of democracy, but
they themselves do not define democracy. That is why it is not unintelligible to conclude
that particular exercises of popular sovereignty or majoritarianism are
antidemocratic.
Democracy is distinct from popular sovereignty and majoritarianism because
democracy is a normative idea that refers to substantive political values
(Michelman 1998), whereas popular sovereignty and majoritarianism are descriptive
terms that refer to particular decision-making procedures. Implicit in the idea
of democracy are the values that allow us to determine whether in specific circumstances
particular decision-making procedures are actually democratic. Governments,
for example, do not become democratic merely because they hold elections
in which majorities govern. Such elections are currently held in North Korea. To
know whether these elections make North Korea democratic requires an inquiry
into whether these elections are implemented in a way that serves democratic values.
It is a grave mistake to confuse democracy with particular decision-making
procedures and to fail to identify the core values that democracy as a form of
government seeks to instantiate.
The values of autonomy are essential to democracy. In the context of government,
these values are associated with the practice of self-determination (Kelsen 1961, 284-86).We must ask, therefore, what it means for a people to engage in the
practice of self-determination. This practice is often interpreted to mean that a
people be made ultimately responsible for governmental decisions, either by making
such decisions directly or by electing those who do (Meiklejohn 1948). But in
my view this is an insufficient account of the practice of self-government. For
reasons that I shall explain, I think it preferable to say that the practice of selfgovernment
requires that a people have the warranted conviction that they are
engaged in the process of governing themselves.3 The distinction is crucial, for it
emphasizes the difference between making particular decisions and recognizing
particular decisions as one's own. Self-government is about the authorship of decisions,
not about the making of decisions.
We can test this distinction by imagining a situation in which the people in their
collective capacity decide issues but in which individuals within the collectivity feel
hopelessly alienated from these decisions. Suppose, for example, that in StateXcitizens
are provided with interactive computer terminals that they are required to
use in the morning to register their preferences about various issues. Each morning,
an agenda for decision (composed by an elected assembly) is presented on the
terminal. The citizens of State X must decide what color clothes should be worn,
what menu should be served for lunch and dinner, the boundaries of the attendance
zones for the neighborhood school, whether a stop sign should be placed at a
local intersection, and so on. Assume that citizens of State X can get from their
computer whatever information they believe is relevant for their votes, including
information about the likely views of other citizens.
Imagine, further, that State X has no public discourse. There are neither newspapers
nor broadcast media. The state bans political parties and associations. It
proscribes public demonstrations and prohibits individuals from publishing their
views to other citizens. Each citizen must make up his or her mind in isolation.
Decisions in State X, however, are made on the basis of the majority vote of the collectivity,
and all individuals are henceforth required to comply: to wear blue, or to serve chicken for lunch, or to attend a particular school, or to stop at the local intersection.
Individuals in StateXfeel completely alienated from these decisions. They
do not identify with them and instead feel controlled and manipulated by the
external force of the collectivity.
Wouldwe deem StateXan example of a society that engages in self-determination?
Although in State X the people retain their ability, "as a collectivity, to decide their
own fate" (Fiss 1996, 37-38), which is to say to make decisions by majority rule, I
very much doubt that we would characterize State X as a democracy.We are much
more likely to condemn it as a dystopian tyranny. Rousseau long ago diagnosed the
reason for this condemnation: collective decision making is merely oppressive
unless there is some internal connection between the particular wills of individual
citizens and the general will of the collectivity (Rousseau 1968, 58-62).4
Of course, it is implausible to claim, as Rousseau might be thought to claim, that
there can exist a complete identity between the particular wills of individual citizens
and the general will of the democratic state. It is enough that individual citizens
can recognize in that general will the potentiality of their own authorship
(Post 1993b). When this occurs, collective decision making is democratic because
it is experienced as self-determination. But when citizens feel alienated from the
general will, or from the process by which the general will is created, voting on
issues is merely a mechanism for decision making, a mechanism that can easily turn
oppressive and undemocratic.
It follows that the value of democracy can be fulfilled only if there is a continual
mediation between collective self-determination and the individual selfdetermination
of particular citizens.5 If democracy requires that citizens experience
their government as their own, as representing them, they must experience
the state as in some way responsive to their own values and ideas. How is this theoretically
possible under modern conditions of diversity, when the citizens of a state
are heterogeneous and disagree with each other? The focus of analysis must shift
from specific state decisions to the process by which these decisions are authorized.
Citizens must experience that process as responsive to their own values and
ideas.
This is the theory of the American First Amendment, which rests on the idea
that if citizens are free to participate in the formation of public opinion, and if the
decisions of the state are made responsive to public opinion, citizens will be able to
experience their government as their own, even if they hold diverse views and otherwise
disagree. That is why the First Amendment, which is antimajoritarian, is
nevertheless regarded as "the guardian of our democracy."

The First Amendment protects the communicative processes by which the
American people work toward an "agreement" that is "uncoerced, and reached by
citizens in ways consistent with their being viewed as free and equal persons"
(Rawls 1985, 229-30). Of course, under conditions of modern hetereogeneity,
actual agreement is impossible, so the notion of agreement functions merely as a
"regulative idea" (Findlay 1981, 241) for the formation of public opinion. If we use
the term public discourse to refer to the communicative processes by which public
opinion is formed, we can say that public discourse continuously but unsuccessfully
strives to mediate between individual and collective self-determination to
produce "a common will, communicatively shaped and discursively clarified in the
political public sphere" (Habermas 1987, 81).
In a modern democracy, therefore, citizens are free to engage in public discourse
to make the state responsive to their ideas and values, in the hope that even
if the state acts in ways inconsistent with those ideas and values, citizens can nevertheless
maintain their identification with the state. There is much about the constitutional
law of freedom of expression that follows from this formulation, but for
present purposes I shall emphasize only that modern democracies on this account
must regard their citizens, insofar as they engage in public discourse, as equal and
autonomous persons. That is why Jean Piaget (1965, 362-63) was profoundly correct
to observe that "the essence of democracy resides in its attitude toward law as a
product of the collective will, and not as something emanating from a transcendent
will or from the authority established by divine right. It is therefore the essence of
democracy to replace the unilateral respect of authority by the mutual respect of
autonomous wills."
II
We are now in a position to deduce our first postulate about the relationship
between democracy and equality. Democracy requires that persons be
treated equally insofar as they are autonomous participants in the process of selfgovernment.
This form of equality is foundational to democracy because it follows
from the very definition of democracy. Democracy requires an equality of
democratic agency.
Democracy continuously strives to reconcile the self-determination of individual
citizens with the self-government of the state. This means that democracy must
regard each citizen as an autonomous, self-determining person, at least insofar as is
relevant to maintaining a live identification with the self-government of the state.
Every citizen is equal in this regard. To the extent that the state treats citizens
unequally in a relevant manner, say by allowing some citizens greater freedom of
participation in public discourse than others, the state becomes heteronomous
with respect to those citizens who are treated unequally. The state thereby loses its
claim to democratic legitimacy with respect to those citizens. It follows that every
citizen in a democracy is entitled to be treated equally in regard to the forms of
conduct that constitute autonomous democratic participation.
This definition of democratic equality is of course formal and functional. Its precise
content must be established by specifying the forms of democratic participation.
These forms are given to us socially and historically, and different forms will
imply different forms of democratic equality. For example, equality in the context
of voting will be different than equality in the context of public discourse. Voting to
select national or statewide officials is understood to be a method through which
citizens participate in the choice of their leaders. Because all citizens are affected
by this choice, we recognize citizens' equality of agency by the principle of "one
person, one vote." The principle signifies that each citizen is to be regarded as formally
equal to every other in the influence that their agency can contribute to public
decisions.
The purpose of communication within public discourse, by contrast, is not to
make decisions but to empower citizens to participate in public opinion in ways
that will permit them to believe that public opinion will become potentially responsive
to their views. Whereas equality in voting is measured in terms of equality of
influence on ultimate decisions, equality of participation in public discourse cannot
be measured in this way. Because influence in public debate is a matter of persuading
others to one's point of view, the state can equalize influence on public
debate only if it controls the intimate and independent processes by which citizens
evaluate the ideas of others. Such efforts are intrinsically undesirable when performed
by the state, both because ideas are not equal - the very structure of public
debate rests on the premise of distinguishing good ideas from bad ideas - and
because any such governmental efforts likely would verge on the tyrannical.
For these reasons, equality of agency in the context of public discourse is measured
by guaranteeing each citizen the right to express himself in public discourse
in a manner that will allow him to believe that public opinion will be responsive to
his agency. This function cannot be achieved by offering each citizen the identical
quantity of expression because a citizen may well deem a given quantity of expression
as inadequate to her communicative needs and hence become alienated from
public opinion, even if that quantity is equal in amount to that given to every other
citizen.

</file>

<file= AmE06_F26>

Throughout the original colonies, before and after the American Revolution, whites took on the costumes and some of the rituals and social organization of Indians. Groups of young white males bonded together for two main reasons. Settlers deployed Indian devices as a way of organizing themselves in opposition to those denying them title to the lands they had developed. Meanwhile, in urban commercial communities, elites demonstrated their wit and invention by learning how to dress, sing, dance, and even orate in Indian style as members of fraternities that drew on Indian influences. On occasion, the city fraternal organizations were called upon to act as hosts for actual Indian groups as they came to the city in some official capacity. This led to the anomalous situation of play Indians and real Indians ceremonializing with each other. This article describes both kinds of white Indians from New York State.
If we are to credit the reports of early American travelers and letter writers, the citizens of the new nation vigorously maintained European traditions of rough music - both the skimmington and the more uniquely American tarring and feathering and riding on a rail - for quick frontier justice and sometimes to have a little neighborly fun, as well. Unsurprisingly, the settlers were hungry for freehold land. They felt it their god-given right to "improve" the land - legitimated through the "empty lands" or vacuum domicilium argument - cutting down the trees, gathering the stones in the field, erecting fences out of what was gathered, and plowing long straight furrows. When possible, they wanted a new arrival to get started on his own enterprise, knowing that whatever the neighbors could do, it would raise the value of their own land - if they ever were able to achieve ownership.

Through the house-raisings, bees, and other frolics that called neighboring farmers and then they expected to own it. But claiming the land, improving it, and prospering proved extremely difficult, especially in the upper reaches of the Delaware, Susquehanna, and Connecticut rivers. These were lands that had rival claimants: expansive Yorkers, the Jerseyites, pious Pennsylvanians, and wild Yankees from Connecticut. Alan Taylor's Pulitzer prize - winning book, William Cooper's Town: Power and Persuasion on the Frontier of the Early American Republic (1995), tells the story vigorously. More than occasionally, brushfire wars broke out between two or more of the claimant parties. But all agreed that the real enemy were the manor lords, land companies, and landlords, all of whom would deny ownership of the land, even if one side were able to burn down the dwellings and blockade houses of the others. And each party seems to have attempted to enlist the help of an Iroquois leader and his braves. Many of the Indian leaders prevailed upon were indiscriminate as to who they were killing and scalping. This was the situation that led to such historical horror stories as the Battle of Minisink and the Yankee-Pennamite Wars.
The controversy over land was compounded by the different logics of the settlers. Some claimed ownership through title ultimately traceable to monarchical fiat, others through English parliamentary disposition, and still others through hereditary entitlements established before the territory was British or American. In the end, those who felt most strongly were those who held no title whatsoever: the squatters and renters who thought they would be able to hang on to a farm through what today is called "sweat equity," that is, by actual physical improvements to which they could point. And it was these renters and squatters who proved to be the most jealous of their rights and the most active in banding together to assert them. Whites, wearing the hunting outfit of the pioneers, which they had adapted from the Iroquois and Algonquins who constituted most of the indigenous population, learned war tactics from the Indians and went even further, forming themselves into their own quasi-tribal organizations. In times of open skirmishes, they called themselves by many local names: Calico Indians, Shirt Boys, Green Mountain Boys, and White Indians. They made noises to suggest that, like the Iroquois themselves, they would battle to protect their land rights. They met secretly, developed "Indian" names, code words, and shibboleths by which they could recognize each other when they met. Thus, they were playing Indians - but seriously (Deloria 1998).

Sometimes, at the point at which the different state governments pursued these claims, these vigilante groups received encouragement to fight from the landowners and their agents, the speculators. Often the farmers themselves got caught between rival claimants, making it all the more difficult for them to obtain title to their farms. Many of the more prosperous settlers were forced to [pay] a number of states or land company claimants, simply to clear a title. Moreover, when the Revolution began, they found themselves fighting a European war in which they had little interest, understanding that they would inevitably be the losers when their crops and cattle were commandeered. They knew that in these national and international conflicts, it was the small farmer who was going to wind up the loser, no matter who signed the treaties (Kim 1987).
The nation emerged during the period when the very notion of the public citizen came to play a central role in everyday life. An outgrowth of commercial enterprise, "public man" emerged as a person of property and substance. These were men who invested a good deal in projecting power and responsibility by going into public and displaying their roles as reluctant but willing leaders. Public settings - courts, taverns and lodges, and other places of assembly -  provided the arenas in which they demonstrated their mastery over the approved power practices of their day: parades, speeches, debates, and legal and political discussions.

In many kinds of voluntary associations, from the secret and apparently spontaneous gatherings of the Calico Indians to the more formal organizations like various fire brigades and local military regiments, white male Americans freely chose to announce themselves as a new breed of citizen. Clubs and other such organizations broke out all over the colonies in the first generation of the eighteenth century: groups like Benjamin Franklin's Junto and Dr. Alexander Hamilton's Tuesday Club, in addition to the introduction of freemasonry. Many of these clubs developed into the Committees of Correspondence and the Sons of Liberty after the passage of the Stamp Act in 1765. Whether they were carrying out frontier justice, organizing in the face of a perceived common enemy, or simply gathering to have fun, these voluntary groups emerged throughout the colonies well before the formal separation from Great Britain.

Many other bands of costumed or disguised young men mobilized to comment on perceived misbehavior within the community or on failures in equity imposed from outside. In mock parades, parodies of patriotic oratorical events, and especially in hangings and burnings in effigy, rallying around the Liberty Pole, the players made fun as they had fun. By developing a wide range of voluntary associations, from the occasional come-one - come-all work party to the more formal organization of the brigade, the lodge, and the band, early Americans put on display the ideal of freehold property used for agricultural purposes. In the countryside, the community of working players reenacted settlement itself. These gregarious practices soon came to be thought of as both American and traditional.
When the Calico Indians mounted their campaign, they drew on tactics used by the other "Indian" resistance groups. As they explained in their public documents, the Calico Indians were protest masqueraders, like the Mohawks of the Boston Tea Party (Christman 1961, 92). These mobilized bands availed themselves of symbols of disorder - motley costumes and noisemakers - to dramatize a socially confrontational stance. Ordinarily, they came together for holidays, roaming the town and countryside, pausing at doors and gates where they offered a little performance, bringing with them luck and good cheer. Often called "antics and horribles," they keyed the neighborhood that something wild was about to take place, usually in fun. To this day, many small-town festivities are called the parade of the "antiques and horribles" or Callithumpian Bands, or they use the old German term, Belsnicklers.

The ancestors of these apparently spontaneous bands were the youth groups found throughout Europe: the apprentices of the crafts guilds and the novices of the confraternities. By custom, these young men were given a yearly time at which they were encouraged to turn the world upside down. The liberties taken on such occasions included not only seizing and often inverting everyday symbols of power, but making satiric social and political commentary. Through mock trials, effigy hangings and burnings, and performing libels (plays in which the misdeeds of the local gentry were commented upon), they carried the power to taunt, disorient, and entertain wherever they clowned.
These practices seem to have migrated with the English settlers, especially those making common cause in the face of outside officialdom. Historians studying the relationship between riots, rebellions, and revolution in the colonies regard these mobbings as common. For instance, historian Pauline Maier says of eighteenth-century life, "Americans accepted the existence of popular uprisings with remarkable ease." She continues, "In certain circumstances . . . the people would rise up almost as a natural force, as night follows day, and this phenomenon often contributed to the public welfare. The colonists' attitude depended in large part upon a tradition of popular uprisings that also shaped the forms of popular force during the revolutionary era" (Maier 1972, 3).

In New York, as in other colonies, if the groups forming themselves came together spontaneously, the practices themselves were anything but spontaneous inventions. The white Indian bands seized the night and built their scare techniques from the guerrilla tactics learned the hard way by settlers over the years. The secrecy of the white Indian bands, their disguise, and their attacks were rationalized as historically sanctioned resistance exercised by those concerned with the "ancient liberties." Like the Boston Mohawks, far from being dressed in Native American garb, they clothed themselves in sheets and blankets and women's dresses of various sorts, masking or darkening their faces against recognition during the night. Like the Wild Man or Green Man of European celebrations, Indian figures represented something like the spirit of the land. This was a technique widely found in European festive costumes - to appear or to represent the earliest indigenous peoples now lost to the land, or to appear as one or another kind of stranger who has wandered in from the East, as Moors, Turks, or East Indians. The calico cloth in the Calico Indians' name, in fact, was the multicolored, inexpensive cotton fabric originally imported from India and first known as Calcutta cloth or Calicut, suggesting an oriental origin.
As they have been described, only the anonymity afforded by the disguise distinguished the maskers. No two costumes were alike in color, style, or decoration, and their arms were makeshift and varied -  muskets, pistols, spears, hatchets and axes, cheese knives, bits of scythes, and clubs. Some of the chiefs of tribes were distinguishable by long dresses like women's nightgowns. Otherwise the disguise was so complete that anecdotes were told about parents talking for hours with their own sons and struggling sisters being overwhelmed by the unwelcome caresses of their own brothers, without the slightest suspicion of their identity (Christman 1961: 92 - 3).

Whether because of sheeting, netting, or some other facial cover, their voices were muffled in the manner of holiday mummers. Perhaps they also held pieces of wood in their mouths, like the White Indians of Maine. They came to know each other by their disguises, the names of the captains often deriving from the color of the costume they wore: "Yellow Jacket," "Black Hawk," "Red Jacket," etc. The impulse was to make themselves strange, to exoticize in order to intensify their scare tactics. As described by Thomas Slaughter, the Calico Indians saw themselves as "Friends of Liberty," as opposed to the representation of outside authority, "Friends of Order" (1986, 19).

</file>

<file= AmE06_F27>

I'd heard a lot about the quality of the meat raised on his "beyond organic" farm, and was eager to sample some. Salatin and his family raise a half-dozen different species (grass-fed beef, chickens, pigs, turkeys, and rabbits) in an intricate rotation that has made his 550 hilly acres of pasture and woods in Virginia's Shenandoah Valley one of the most productive and sustainable small farms in America. But when I telephoned Joel to ask him to send me a broiler, he said he couldn't do that. I figured he meant he wasn't set up for shipping, so I offered to have an overnight delivery service come pick it up.
"No, I don't think you understand. I don't believe it's sustainable - 'organic,' if you will - to FedEx meat all around the country," Joel told me. "I'm afraid if you want to try one of our chickens, you're going to have to drive down here to pick it up."
This man was serious. He went on to explain that Polyface does not ship long distance, does not sell to supermarkets, and does not wholesale its food. All of the meat and eggs that Polyface produces is eaten within a few dozen miles or, at the most, half a day's drive of the farm - within the farm's "foodshed." At first I assumed Joel's motive for keeping his food chain so short was strictly environmental - to save on the prodigious quantities of fossil fuel Americans burn moving their food around the country and, increasingly today, the world. (The typical fruit or vegetable on an American's plate travels some 1,500 miles to get there, and is frequently better traveled and more worldly than its eater.) But after taking Joel up on his offer to drive down to Swoope, Virginia, to pick up a chicken, I picked up a great deal more - about the renaissance of local food systems, and the values they support, values that go far beyond the ones a food buyer supports when he or she buys organic in the supermarket. It turns out that Joel Salatin, and the local food movement he's become an influential part of, is out to save a whole lot more than energy. 
In Joel's view, the reformation of our food economy begins with people going to the trouble and expense of buying directly from farmers they know - "relationship marketing," the approach he urges in his recent book, Holy Cows and Hog Heaven: The Food Buyer's Guide to Farm Friendly Food. Joel believes that the only meaningful guarantee of integrity is when buyers and sellers can look one another in the eye, something few of us ever take the trouble to do. "Don't you find it odd that people will put more work into choosing their mechanic or house contractor than they will into choosing the person who grows their food?"
Joel, who describes himself as a "Christian-libertarian-environmentalist-lunatic farmer," speaks of his farming as his "ministry," and certainly his 1,000 or so regular customers hear plenty of preaching. Each spring he sends out a long, feisty, single-spaced letter that could convince even a fast-food junkie that buying a pastured broiler from Polyface Farm qualifies as an act of social, environmental, nutritional, and political redemption.
"Greetings from the non-bar code people," began one recent missive, before launching into a high-flying jeremiad against our disconnected "multi-national global corporate techno-glitzy food system" with its "industrial fecal factory concentration camp farms." (The dangerous pileup of modifiers is a hallmark of Joel's rhetorical style.) Like any good jeremiad, this one eventually transits from despair to hope, noting that the "yearning in the human soul to smell a flower, pet a pig and enjoy food with a face is stronger now than anytime in history," before moving into a matter-of-fact discussion of this year's prices and the paramount importance of sending in your order blanks and showing up to collect your chickens on time.
I met several of Polyface's parishioners on a Thursday in June as they came to collect the fresh chickens they'd reserved. It was a remarkably diverse group of people: a schoolteacher, several retirees, a young mom with her towheaded twins, a mechanic, an opera singer, a furniture maker, a woman who worked in a metal fabrication plant in Staunton. They were paying a premium over supermarket prices for Polyface food, and in many cases driving more than an hour over a daunting (though gorgeous) tangle of county roads to come get it. But no one would ever mistake these people for the well-heeled, urban foodies generally thought to comprise the market for organic or artisanal food. There was plenty of polyester in this crowd and a lot more Chevrolets than Volvos in the parking lot.
So what exactly had they come all the way out here to the farm to buy? Here are some of the comments I collected:
"This is chicken as I remember it from my childhood. It actually tastes like chicken."
"I just don't trust the food in the supermarket anymore."
"These eggs just jump up and slap you in the face!"
"You're not going to find fresher chickens anywhere."
"All this meat comes from happy animals - I know because I've seen them. And the pork tenderloin is to die for!"
"I drive 150 miles one way to get clean meat for my family."
"It's very simple: I trust the Salatins more than I trust Wal-Mart. And I like the idea of keeping my money right here in town."
I was hearing, in other words, the same stew of food fears and food pleasures (and food memories) that has driven the growth of the organic food industry over the past 20 years - that, and the satisfaction many Polyface customers clearly take in spending a little time on a farm, porch-chatting with the Salatins, and taking a beautiful drive in the country to get here. For some people, reconnecting with the source of their food is a powerful idea. For the farmer, these on-farm sales allow him to recapture the 92 cents of a consumer's food dollar that now typically winds up in the pockets of processors, middlemen, and retailers. 
I asked Joel how he answers the charge that because food like his is more expensive, it is inherently elitist. "I don't accept the premise," he replied. "First off, those weren't any 'elitists' you met on the farm this morning. We sell to all kinds of people. Second, whenever I hear people say clean food is expensive, I tell them it's actually the cheapest food you can buy. That always gets their attention. Then I explain that, with our food, all of the costs are figured into the price. Society is not bearing the cost of water pollution, of antibiotic resistance, of food-borne illnesses, of crop subsidies, of subsidized oil and water - of all the hidden costs to the environment and the taxpayer that make cheap food seem cheap. No thinking person will tell you they don't care about all that. I tell them the choice is simple: You can buy honestly priced food or you can buy irresponsibly priced food."
As it is, artisanal producers like Joel compete on quality, which, oddly enough, is still a somewhat novel idea when it comes to food. "When someone drives up to the farm in a BMW and asks me why our eggs cost more, well, first I try not to get mad," said Joel. "Frankly, any city person who doesn't think I deserve a white-collar salary as a farmer doesn't deserve my special food. Let them eat E. coli. But I don't say that. Instead I take him outside and point at his car. 'Sir, you clearly understand quality and are willing to pay for it. Well, food is no different: You get what you pay for.'
"Why is it that we exempt food, of all things, from that rule? Industrial agriculture, because it depends on standardization, has bombarded us with the message that all pork is pork, all chicken is chicken, eggs eggs, even though we all know that can't really be true. But it's downright un-American to suggest that one egg might be nutritionally superior to another." Joel recited the slogan of his local supermarket chain: "'We pile it high and sell it cheap.' What other business would ever sell its products that way?"
When you think about it, it is odd that something as important to our health and general well-being as food is so often sold strictly on the basis of price. Look at any supermarket ad in the newspaper and all you will find in it are quantities - pounds and dollars; qualities of any kind are nowhere to be found. The value of relationship marketing is that it allows many kinds of information besides price to travel up and down the food chain: stories as well as numbers, qualities as well as quantities, values rather than "value." And as soon as that happens, people begin to make different kinds of buying decisions, motivated by criteria other than price. But instead of stories about how it was produced accompanying our food, we get bar codes - as illegible as the industrial food chain itself, and a fair symbol of its almost total opacity. 
Much of our food system depends on our not knowing much about it, beyond the price disclosed by the checkout scanner; cheapness and ignorance are mutually reinforcing. And it's a short way from not knowing who's at the other end of your food chain to not caring - to the carelessness of both producers and consumers that characterizes our economy today. Of course, the global economy couldn't very well function without this wall of ignorance and the indifference it breeds. This is why the American food industry and its international counterparts fight to keep their products from telling even the simplest stories - "dolphin safe," "humanely slaughtered," etc. - about how they were produced. The more knowledge people have about the way their food is produced, the more likely it is that their values - and not just "value" - will inform their purchasing decisions.
TO TALK TO THE CUSTOMERS and farmers working together in Joel Salatin's corner of the country to rebuild a local food chain is to appreciate it is a movement and not merely a market. Or rather it is a novel hybrid, a market-as-movement for at its heart is a new conception of what it means to be a "consumer" - an attempt to redeem that ugly word, with its dismal colorings of selfishness and subtraction. Many of the Polyface customers I met (though by no means all of them) had come to see their decision to buy a chicken from a local farmer rather than from Wal-Mart as a kind of civic act, even a form of protest. A protest of what exactly is harder to pin down, and each person might put it a little differently, but the customers I met at Polyface had gone to some trouble and expense to "opt out" - of the supermarket, of the fast-food nation, and, standing behind that, a globalized industrial agriculture. Their talk of distrusting Wal-Mart, resenting the abuse of animals in farm factories, insisting on knowing who was growing their food, and wanting to keep their food dollars in town - all this suggested that for many of these people spending a little more for a dozen eggs was a decision inflected by a politics, however tentative or inchoate.
"Opting out" is a key term for Joel, who believes that it would be a fatal mistake to "try to sell a connected, holistic, ensouled product through a Western, reductionist, Wall Street sales scheme" - by which (I think) he means selling to big organic supermarkets like Whole Foods. As far as Joel is concerned, there isn't a world of difference between Whole Foods and Wal-Mart. Both are part of an increasingly globalized economy that turns any food it touches into a commodity, reaching its tentacles wherever in the world a food can be produced most cheaply and then transporting it wherever it can be sold most dearly.

</file>

<file= AmE06_F28>

And yet the lasting fame of Otis's speech was by no means assured. No court stenographer made a record of the proceedings, nor did Otis ever write out the address he had presented before a small professional audience. It was John Adams, awed by the implications of the forensic drama he witnessed in the Superior Court that day, who, from a few notes he took during the hearing, crafted an abstract of Otis's address. But Adams's abstract gathered dust for more than a decade before it first appeared in print, and not until after the American Revolution, amidst the earliest efforts to chronicle and document the great struggle for Independence, did Adams take up the cause of James Otis in earnest and launch his campaign to transform an impassioned forensic argument of local interest into a revered oration of national and historical significance. The fascinating story of Adams's efforts tells us a great deal about the way in which past events enter the collective memory and are pre served, popularized, and transmitted to later generations.
The controversy that inspired Otis's memorable display of eloquence concerned legal documents that gave royal customs officials the right to enlist the "assistance" of a local sheriff or constable in the pursuit of smuggled goods. Such writs had been part of the legal culture in Massachusetts since at least 1696, when Parliament passed the "Act for preventing Frauds and regulating Abuses in the Plantation Trade," which ex tended the search powers used in England to the American colonies. Functioning like a general warrant, the writ allowed a customs agent to initiate a search without first appearing before a magistrate to establish probable cause; nor after a search had been conducted was he obligated to account for the use of the writ. Designed to ensure the payment of duties on goods imported into the colonies, the writs were valuable tools in England's enforcement of trade and navigation laws. In 1760 a group of Boston merchants objected to the issuance of a writ to customs agent James Cockle. Before the Massachusetts Superior Court could hear the case, however, George II died. A 1702 law required that all writs issued in the name of a de ceased sovereign be renewed under the authority of his successor within six months. As a result, the coming trial on Cockle's application would take on added significance. Any decision by the Superior Court in that case would, by extension, apply to the legality of all the newly issued writs in the colony and, therefore, could affect all trade enforcement and revenue collection in Massachusetts So that he might argue on behalf of the Boston merchants, James Otis resigned as acting advocate general of the province. At the February 1761 hearing, he opposed the writs on constitutional grounds, maintaining that all general writs violated the British constitution and thus endangered American liberty. According to a right understanding of the constitution, he argued, only special warrants were legal. Almost immediately John Adams recognized the significance of Otis's argument. Otis had proposed a radical legal theory, suggesting that the court had the obligation to declare null and void any act of Parliamentary legislation it deemed unconstitutional. "An act against the constitution is void," said Otis. Moreover, after examining the use of writs in the enforcement of British trade laws, Otis had concluded that they aided the taxation of the American colonies. Insofar as they facilitated the collection of revenue, he maintained, the writs were instruments of slavery and villainy. This early instance of colonial challenge to British taxation is perhaps why John Adams, as well as later historians, considered the writs of assistance case to have been "the first scene of the first act of opposition to the arbitrary claims of Great Britain."'1 Who Will Write the History? Writing in his Autobiography in 18o2, Adams reflected back on his experience of observing Otis's masterful performance. Otis, "the most able, manly and commanding Character of his Age at the Bar," Adams declared, spoke "in Opposition to the Writ," the unconstitutionality of which he analyzed "with great Acuteness and all the learning which could be connected with the Subject." Adams recalled that at that moment when Otis delivered his argument, "A Contest appeared to me to be opened, to which I could foresee no End, and which would render my Life a Burden and Property, Industry and every Thing insecure.""' A few years later, Adams wrote as an "injured friend" to Otis's sister, Mercy Otis Warren, to comment on the distortions and omissions he detected in her history of the Revolution. To be sure, Adams was mainly concerned with how he himself would appear to Warren's readers "both in present and future times.' He was determined to remind her that he had been present at the birth of the Revolution. The writs of assistance case, he wrote had "opened to my view a nearer prospect of a revolution than I had ever seen before," and as early as 1761, he had "concluded [that] the controversy would be long continued, productive in time of a civil war, and actually terminate in a separation of the Colonies from the mother country."' Warren had told the story of the 1761 trial, and of the famous address in which her brother "opposed with peculiar energy and strength of argument" the writs of assistance, but she had omitted Adams's small part in the episode. She had described James Otis as the "first champion of American freedom"; "by the exertion of his talents and the sacrifice of interest," he had shown himself to be a patriot who "may justly claim the honor of laying the foundation of a revolution, which has been productive of the happiest effects to the civil and political interests of mankind." Yet she had quoted only very brief passages from Otis's remarks and done so without mentioning Adams's contributions to the surviving speech. In his letter, Adams asked Warren to recall that "I heard your brother James Otis, and Mr. Thacher, in the Council Chamber before the Superior Court in February, 1761, against the legality of these writs"; indeed, Adams had been the one who "took minutes of the argument, made a short sketch of a report of it, which was afterwards surreptitiously printed, though garbled, and has got into Judge Minot's History. " As time passed, the neglect of his own services, and those of his deceased friend, tormented Adams. He considered such a collective disregard for history to be symptomatic of a political decline that ultimately would doom the republican experiment. On 31 August 1813, he wrote to Thomas McKean, fellow signer of the Declaration of Independence. "Can you account for the apathy, the antipathy of this nation to their own history? Is there not a repugnance to the thought of looking back? While thousands of frivolous novels are read with eagerness and got by heart, the history of our own native country is not only neglected, but despised and abhorred."' Glorious accounts about Washington, Franklin, and Jefferson, Adams was convinced, were eclipsing the patriotic contributions of many other worthy men. "When you apply to me to assist you in writing history," he wrote to Jedidiah Morse on 4 March 1815, "I know not whether I ought to laugh or cry. I have little faith in history." Adams went on: Our American history for the last fifty years is already as much corrupted as any half century of ecclesiastical history, from the Council of Nice to the restoration of the Inquisition in 1814. If I were to write a history of the last sixty years, as the facts rest in my memory, and according to my judgment, and under the oath of "proveritate historiarum mearum Deum ipsum obtestor [For the truth of my history, I call to witness God Himself," a hundred writers in America, France, England, and Holland would immediately appear, and call me, to myself, and before the world, a gross liar and a perjured villain.... If you desire it, I may hereafter give you two or three samples of such a his tory as I should write; anecdotes of no kind of consequence now, un less they should serve to show how many thousand facts are wholly concealed and unknown to posterity; facts, which mark characters, and might materially influence great events.18 A few months later, Adams communicated again with McKean. 'Who shall write the history of the American Revolution? Who can write it? Who will ever be able to write it?"h e asked.' As Adams pursued his often futile efforts to set the record straight about his own career, he also took on the task of de fending the character and abilities of James Otis, the man he credited with sparking the Revolution. The correspondence with McKean and Morse gave Adams the opportunity to ad dress his historical concerns. He reminisced with McKean about events and personalities from the revolutionary period, and together the two men sketched out the essential character istics of an adequate history of the conflict. "General Wilkinson may have written the military history of the war that followed the Revolution," Adams explained, but "this will by no means be a history of the American Revolution. The revolution was in the minds of the people, and in the union of the colonies, both of which were accomplished before hostilities commenced."In the chronology Adams constructed," this revolution and union were gradually forming from the year 1760 to 1775." Therefore, all "the pamphlets, newspapers, and handbills of both parties" would need to be consulted "before a correct history can be written of the American Revolution." More important than his letters to McKean was Adams's correspondence with Jedidiah Morse, a noted geographer who was preparing a history of the Revolution. Morse had solicited Adams's assistance in assembling material for his project, and the request presented Adams with an occasion to influence the shape of his legacy as well as of Otis's. On 29 November i815, Adams wrote to Morse, repeating what he had told McKean. "The revolution was in the minds and hearts of the people, and in the union of the colonies. Both of which were substantially effected before hostilities commenced." As he reflected on that "great intellectual, moral, and political change," he focused on "the month of February, 1761," wherein occurred "the great cause of writs of assistance."" The Wedge of Providence In Adams's view, the change in the "minds and hearts" of Americans originated at the writs of assistance trial, when Otis, an embodiment of the classical orator-hero, "argued before the supreme judicature of the province." Convinced that the Revolution had commenced with the writs of assistance case in 1761, Adams launched an active campaign to bring James Otis before the American public. To Morse, Adams insisted that Otis's performance was the ideal of patriotic eloquence. Mr. Otis displayed so comprehensive a knowledge of the subject, showed not only the illegality of the writ, its insidious and mischievous tendency, but he laid open the views and designs of Great Britain, in taxing us, of destroying our charters and assuming the powers of our government, legislative, executive, and judicial, external and internal, civil and ecclesiastical, temporal and spiritual; and all this was per formed with such a profusion of learning, such convincing argument, and such a torrent of sublime and pathetic eloquence, that a great crowd of spectators and auditors went away absolutely electrified.22 Writing to Morse on Revolutionary subjects six more times over the next two months, Adams set out what he considered to be the proper chronology of the Revolution. "From 1761 to 1764, he wrote, "America was all alive with jealousies and apprehensions of the designs of the British ministry and their own governors and their adherents." During this phase, said Adams, "Providence was now raising up in the person of Mr. Otis a genius, equally bold and daring, equally well tempered and qualified, as a wedge to split the knotty Lignum vitae block of parliamentary usurpation over the colonies."

</file>

<file= AmE06_F29>

In 1932 Edgar Wind published "Humanitatsidee und heroisiertes Portrat in der englischen Kultur des 18. Jahrhunderts" while still a privatdozent at Hamburg University within the orbit of Aby Warburg's library and method. Wind eventually settled on the more concise and agonistic title "Hume and the Heroic Portrait" for the projected English translation, which is now considered a foundational text in the critical history of British art. Wind proposed that eighteenth-cen tury British portraiture, at its best, shared a common cultural field with philosophical writing - a field on which differing conceptions of human nature could challenge and interro gate each other. In the second half of the eighteenth century especially, according to Wind, this contest was vigorous and revealing. Lined up on one side were the "heroic" moralists, including Samuel Johnson, James Beattie, and the theatrically grand portraits of Joshua Reynolds. The skeptics, particularly regarding a heroic view of human endeavor, faced them on the other side, led by David Hume and the portraits of Thomas Gainsborough. With the exponential increase in British art historical writing that has taken place in the interim, Wind's polemical distinction between two philosophical viewpoints and their respective champions, Reynolds and Gainsborough, now appears overdrawn and historically reductive. Some of Wind's insights, however, remain as compelling as ever, with their anticipation of interdisciplinarity and their place within a Warburgian school of thought. Historians of British art have greatly extended Wind's methodology by examining Georgian portraiture in terms of the class tensions, gender constructions, political ideologies, and ethnic prejudices that it reveals. As Marcia Pointon has argued, these new lines of inquiry "open onto a politics of representation in which the historical human subject is not a separate entity from the portrait depiction of him or her, but part of a process through which knowledge is claimed and the social and physical environment is shaped." It is in the light of this more expansive and socially constructed notion of representation, and the knowledge claimed through it, that I would like to return to one of the most provocative questions asked by Wind in "Hume and the Heroic Portrait": Was portraiture capable of engaging in serious philosophical debate? In a crucial early passage in "Hume and the Heroic Portrait," Wind argued: Portraiture shows this give and take between artists and philosophers especially clearly. Attached to the painting of a portrait is a social situation, in which the artist has to come to terms with an attitude, that of his sitter, an attitude that will often be supported by philosophical views, and which, should the sitter happen to be a professional philosopher, will result in the artist producing - or being obliged to produce - an argument in paint. The real focus of Wind's essay, however, turns out to be portraits of children and thespians, two subject categories particularly open to projection and manipulation - precisely the opposite of the philosophical sitter. When Wind does test his hypothesis, he pits Joshua Reynolds's heavily allegorized portrait of James Beattie (1773, University of Aberdeen) against Allan Ramsay's portrait of David Hume (Fig. 1). It is a stark contrast indeed, with even Wind admitting that "Reynolds's portrait of Beattie gives a very unfortunate idea of his style of heroic portraiture." In such a comparison, Ramsay's portrait of Hume appears self-evidently restrained and transparently "humanistic." I return to the beginning of Wind's argument, so to speak, to examine whether philosophers really could compel portraitists to construct "arguments in paint." Rather than Wind's hyperbolic dichotomy between Beattie and Hume, I will focus on two portraits initially conceived as a pair: Allan Ramsay originally painted the half-length portrait of Hume (Fig. 1) to serve as a companion piece to a slightly earlier portrait of Jean-Jacques Rousseau (Fig. 2). Significantly, Hume's "companion" piece was painted just as his friendship with Rousseau began to disintegrate and, worse, degenerate into a highly public "affair" in the English press. The "Hume Rousseau affair" pivoted on the issue of royal patronage, a boon sought by Hume, desired yet ultimately declined by Rousseau, and monopolized by Ramsay (at least in the eyes of his fellow artists) .8 The quest for royal patronage effectively links the personal disagreement between Hume and Rousseau to a very real set of philosophical differences underlying their fight. Ramsay's paired portraits became active participants in this debate and material indices of the political and social capital necessary to play the patronage game. It was a game, I will argue, that contained a potent imperial dimension in the 1760s. For it was at the level of political philosophy, particularly as it related to the restive American colonies, that Rousseau, Hume, and Ramsay revealed some of their sharpest, most personally invested differences. By respecting just how profoundly Rousseau distrusted the patronizing structures around him and, conversely, how beneficent Hume and Ramsay deemed those political structures to be, we enable Ramsay's paired masterpieces to resume their debate. Capturing Rousseau Ramsay's portrait of Rousseau, which predates the portrait of Hume, merits analysis on its own terms in order to recapture its singular pictorial logic (Fig. 2). Fleeing from persecution on the Continent after the publication of Emile and The Social Contract, Rousseau decided in 1765 to meet Hume in Paris, from where both men could make their way to Britain. Arriving in London in January 1766, Rousseau stayed in the capital until mid-March, at which time he moved into a quiet retreat in Staffordshire. On largely good terms with Rousseau until his departure for the country, Hume began to have misgivings about his friend in May when he realized that Rousseau might reject a royal pension that Hume had helped to procure for him. As the summer of 1766 progressed, their relationship degenerated to the point that it entered the London papers as a full-blown "affair" - that is, a private disagreement avidly followed by the reading public. Chronology is significant, because Ramsay painted Rousseau's portrait in March 1766 while the Genevan was still in London, leading Alastair Smart, the principal authority on Ramsay's career, to interpret the painting as a good-natured document of friendship as well as a naturalistic masterpiece. It was naturalism of a very different order, though, from nearly every other work in Ramsay's oeuvre. The broad gestures and atmospheric effects of Rousseau contrast strikingly with the precise handling and delicacy of Ramsay's conventional portraits. As Smart observed, Ramsay abandoned, quite possibly for the first time in his thirty-year career, the use of a vivid red underpainting at the first sitting. Instead, Ram say worked quickly, directly on the canvas, leaving the shadowy portion of Rousseau's face just as loose and rough as the background. While the overall effect has been said to capture Rousseau's "passionate" temperament, correlations between style and content, paint application and purpose have remained largely tacit in the art historiography. Rousseau turns to his right in a fur-trimmed Armenian gown and fur hat, or what one English lady referred to as a "very silly. . . pellisse & fur cap." Rousseau began wearing the Armenian gown in the early 1760s as a medical expedient for catheters that helped to ease his urinary problems, and it is possible, although not certain, that he chose to wear the gown to Ramsay's studio.15 Eighteenth-century portraitists were adept at portraying men-of-letters in their "banians" as they engaged in reading, writing, or lounging at home.16 Rousseau's innovation was to make the philosopher's gown a regular part of his public wardrobe and an important part of his public image. Providing powerful associations with his quasi-autobiographical writings, his critique of cosmopolitan ism, and his formulation of "Natural Man," Rousseau's gown provided a potent, multivalent attribute, and one that Ramsay could hardly be expected to view ambivalently.
Largely setting aesthetic judgments aside, Rousseau responded to the portrait as a material index of his relationship with Hume. Initially pleased with the gesture, Rousseau began to question Hume's motives soon after he departed for the country. It was in his rural retreat that Rousseau noticed newspaper articles published at his expense - satires that he believed were encouraged by his "friends" in London. Dis missing the disinterested pretensions of art as thoroughly as those of philosophy, Rousseau began to question how and why Hume and Ramsay wanted to "take" his likeness. On July 10 Rousseau sent a passionate letter to Hume (long enough, in Hume's opinion, to "make a good eighteen-penny pamphlet"), which complained that Ramsay's portrait seemed to me to carry with it too much the affectation of popularity, and had an air of ostentation which by no means pleased me. All this, however, might have been easily excusable, had Mr. Hume been a man apt to throw away his money, or had a gallery of pictures with the portraits of his friends. Rousseau emphasized the exceptional nature of the commission and questioned Hume's motives. In his defense, published as an actual pamphlet in November, Hume responded, My friend, Mr. Ramsay, a painter of eminence, and a man of merit, proposed to draw Mr. Rousseau's picture; and when he had begun it, told me he intended to make me a present of it. Thus the design of having Mr. Rousseau's picture drawn did not come from me, nor did it cost me anything. This directly contradicts a private letter of March 22 in which Hume wrote that Rousseau "sat for his Picture at my Desire: It was to Allan Ramsay, who has succeeded to Admiration, and has made me a most valuable Portrait." I am less interested in ascertaining the truth behind such claims than in noting the economic undercurrent behind the accusations. Terms such as "money," "cost," and "valuable" compel us to consider Ramsay's portrait outside private economies of gift exchange.
The rapid reproduction of Rousseau in mezzotint largely confirms the portrait's "affectation of popularity." Completed by Ramsay's chief studio assistant, David Martin, within a month, the mezzotint was immediately dispatched to the 1766 Society of Artists' exhibition (Fig. 3). There was undoubtedly a market for such an image. Voltaire, who experienced the insatiability of English curiosity firsthand, pre dicted, "The Gazetteers will make an exact record of all your deeds and acts, and will speak of the great Jean-Jacques like the King's elephant and the Queen's zebra; but since the English amuse themselves with rarities of all types, it is even rarer that they esteem them." We might equally question the extent to which Ramsay's "exact record" reflected the artist's personal esteem. Ramsay directly employed David Martin in the 1760s, and profits from the print could have been distributed between the two men in any number of ways. Even Ramsay's unprecedented technique suggests that the portrait could have been produced as a template for the reproductive mezzotint. As the original was painted briskly in deep chiaroscuro with a limited palette, Martin did not have to work hard to accomplish his task. Stated cynically, Ramsay's "gift" to Hume served as a pretext for the reproductive print. While many of the quotes cited above are familiar in the Ramsay literature, they have been deployed in such a way that the "disinterested" claims of art have taken precedence over any and all of Rousseau's objections. The monographic desire for a sympathetic protagonist combined with a hearty dose of nationalist sympathy have contributed to this narrative impulse. Alastair Smart made his own sympathies clear by describing Rousseau as a "deranged self-tormentor" who "unaccountably turned on his benefactor and accused him of plotting his destruction." To a reader with greater tolerance and a more historically nuanced conception of terms like "benefactor," Rousseau's behavior becomes not just account able but conceptually poignant. Rousseau's objections are political first and aesthetic second; that is, they are concerned with power dynamics implicit in the relationship between painter, patron, sitter, and spectator and in the telling dis tinction between "friend" and "benefactor." As paranoid, therefore, as Rousseau's claims may sound, there are aspects of Rousseau Judge of Jean-Jacques: Dialogues (an autobiographical defense begun in 1772) that deserve to be taken seriously:

</file>

<file= AmE06_F30>

Unlike most books regarding online education, this book is not about teaching; it is about effectively administrating an online education program. Grounded in existing distance education theory, and drawing from best practices, current research, and an extensive review of current literature, An Administrator's Guide to Online Education systematically identifies and discusses seven key issues that affect the practice of online education today: leadership and strategic planning, policy and operation, faculty, online student services, online student success, technology and the courseware management system, and finally marketing. Throughout the text, the authors provide case studies, examples, policies, and resources from actual institutions, which further enhance the value of this text. An Administrator's Guide to Online Education, encompasses the issues and provides information on how to accomplish one specific task: successful online education administration. 
Faculty Issues in Online Education 
Since online education is a new paradigm, many faculty members are unprepared for the fundamental differences in the roles required for teaching online. A higher level of involvement by administrators in faculty support is needed to ensure success. Seven issues exist related to faculty that administrators must address: faculty buy-in; policies that address faculty concerns; selection of faculty; faculty compensation; an understanding of faculty workloads; faculty support; and faculty satisfaction. This chapter excerpt focuses specifically on three of these most widely discussed issues in online education today: faculty compensation; faculty workload; and faculty selection. 
Faculty Compensation 
Faculty must find reward in teaching online (Kovel-Jarboe, 1997). Most faculty find the intrinsic rewards of online education outweigh the extrinsic rewards (Betts, 1998; Parker, 2003; Rockwell et al., 1999); however, faculty must function in a culture that respects their time, efforts, and intellectual output. This is demonstrated most visibly in compensation and how much consideration online participation is given in the promotion and tenure process (Rockwell et al., 1999; Willis, 1994). 
Compensation and incentives encourage faculty to participate in online activities and reward those that participate. Incentive structures and policy need to be examined as online education moves mainstream (Koval-Jarobe, 1997). Moving the program to the mainstream requires administrators to focus on compensation, incentives, and perks, and how consideration for promotion and tenure reflects participation in online education programs. 
Courseload and Compensation 
Courseload consideration for online instruction is the most common form of compensation (National Education Association, 2000). The National Education Association (NEA, 2000) reported 73 percent of NEA members who taught online courses were compensated as part of their normal courseload. This does not mean that courseload reduction was the exclusive form of compensation, as other enticements such as additional compensation, perks, or other incentives may also be offered. 
At most institutions of higher education in the United States, faculty load is calculated in the number of semester credit hours taught with courseload reductions or equivalencies routinely given for research or other scholarly activities. The issue of load is often raised when an institution requests an instructor to develop and/or teach online education courses. Policy should clearly define the institution's calculation of faculty load for course development and instruction and should also address teaching load for instruction and the initial creation of the online course. Many institutions attempt fair calculation of teaching loads for online instructors by calculating the online course the same as teaching a traditional class. Calculating load for course development is slightly more complex since it is not always limited to a single semester. Schifter (2000) notes that faculty are compensated more for distance course creation than for instruction. Many institutions have adopted a policy of also offering courseload reductions for online course development, but that may not always be enough. 
Of course, how the institution chooses to address these issues will be largely based upon culture, historical context, and institutional priority. The institution should also outline the expectations of faculty to alter or revise the course once it has been developed. The American Council on Education (2000) raised questions regarding not only the creation of the course but also the revision of the course and the amount of time needed to launch the course. In addition to courseload reductions, workload reductions from out-of-class responsibilities may also need to accurately reflect the additional amount of time involved with course creation and modification. 
Royalties from course development may be provided as a form of compensation. Payments, based upon predetermined arrangements, vary from institution to institution with many institutions choosing not to offer royalties at all. Institutional policy must directly address all concerns regarding the distribution of royalties by explicitly stating whether royalties will be provided or not. 
Incentives and Perks 
Incentives and perks are also used to encourage faculty participation. Kovel-Jarboe (1997) noted, "When distance learning is a marginal aspect of campus life, it is tempting to offer incentives (often monetary) to entice faculty to design and deliver distance education offerings" (p. 28). Incentives are most frequently offered in the form of cash stipends. Other incentives institutions offer are listed below: 
Higher pay for teaching an online class (than for a traditional class) 
Reduction in other workloads (committee, governance, administrative) 
Provision/reimbursement for residential broadband or dial-up Internet access 
New computer hardware or software 
Ability to hold online office hours from home 
Teaching or graduate assistant 
Travel 
National conference fees 
Discretionary spending account (as adapted from Schifter, 2000) 
Schifter (2000) found in a study of 160 institutions: the cost of the residential Internet was provided as incentive the most and the provision of a graduate assistant and faculty release time was provided the least.
Promotion and Tenure 
When tenure is awarded to faculty, it is usually done according to formal institutional policy and predefined criteria. The institution's policies toward tenure and promotion communicate the institution's preference for faculty activities, which, in turn, will affect the level of participation by faculty in institutionally approved activities. Rockwell and colleagues (1999) noted that faculty must comprehend how teaching online affects promotion and tenure. Willis (1994) states, "If the institutional reward structure lacks the flexibility to recognize the role played by distance educators, it should be modified before faculty interest and enthusiasm wanes" (p. 288). Consideration of online course development and instruction in the tenure and promotion process is a powerful way to encourage participation; not recognizing this will present a sizable barrier. To be effective, online administrators should strive to make sure faculty are evaluated fairly (Willis, 1993). 
Faculty Workload 
Closely related to faculty courseload is the issue of the daily time required to teach online. Workload is not a discussion of how courses count in faculty load calculations, but the number of hours needed each day to teach online. Many faculty are concerned about workload in online courses and that concern has quickly become one of the largest issues in faculty participation. O'Quinn and Corry (2002) surveyed faculty and division chairs at a community college on 30 factors related to participation in distance education. "The factor which posed the greatest concern to all faculty and division chairs regarding their participation in distance education was the workload that faculty incur as a result of participating in distance education" (O'Quinn & Corry, 2002). 
The common conception is "it takes more time to teach in a virtual classroom than in a regular one" (Young, 2002b, p. A31). Many faculty would quickly agree with this assessment; however, in a recent study published in The Internet and Higher Education, Hislop and Ellis (2004) found "instructors worked an average of six more minutes per student in an online course than in a classroom. In a course with 30 students, that's about three more hours per semester" (as cited in Carnevale, 2004d, p. A31). Hislop believes the misconception may "result of the pacing of online instruction" (as cited in Carnevale, 2004d, p. A31), as the preparation time is significant before the course starts but slows down throughout the duration. Another study, conducted by Melody M. Thompson comparing workload in the online environment at the Penn State World Campus, found similar results in that workload "was comparable to or somewhat less than that for face-to-face courses ... [noting that] "a differential 'chunking' of productive time contributed in some cases to a perception of increased workload" (Thompson, 2004, p. 84). 
 This research and other observations suggest that the type of activities a faculty member might be involved in when teaching an online course are different than traditional classroom activities. Rather than spending time in class prep and lecture, an online instructor's time is spent in the discussion boards and responding to email. A focus group conducted with full-time faculty teaching online for the first time at Abilene Christian University revealed that the majority felt they were spending more time grading and less time in direct instruction (Saltsman, personal communication, August 15, 2004). Drexel professor Gregory W. Hislop agrees, stating, "The hours spent teaching in a classroom tend to come all at once" (as cited in Carnevale, 2004d, p. A31). Unlike traditional class prep and delivery, online coursework is more evenly paced. "The frequent contact with online students can interrupt a professor's research or other projects, making it seem that teaching in cyberspace takes more of the professor's time" (as cited in Carnevale, 2004d, p. A31). 
Class Size 
Teacher-student interaction should be encouraged, as it plays a significant role in student attitudes toward online learning (Tomei, 2004). The learning community approach to online instruction requires increased personal interaction to engage with students and effectively ascertain if they are learning and progressing at a desired rate. Therefore, the time a faculty member spends in interaction per student is higher in an online course than in a traditional setting (Tomei, 2004). The best solution to encourage faculty-student interaction, and to obtain the rewards of lower course attrition and greater student performance, is to keep class sizes small. 
According to The Survey of Distance and Cyberlearning Programs in HigherEducation, 2002-2003 Edition, class sizes range from 2 to 100. As for national statistics on average class size, the literature varies from 12 to 15 (Gibbons & Wentworth, 2001) to 20 to 25 (Primary Research Group, 2003; Sausner, 2003). This could be related to sampling errors, exclusion of other distance modalities, timing of the survey, or it may be related to the inclusion of for-profit institutions into the calculations. Interestingly, some of the for-profit institutions, which constitute a sizable number of online enrollments, have lower student-teacher ratios. The for-profit University of Phoenix caps classes at 13 students and has a typical class size of 11 (Olsen, 2002) and Cappella, another for-profit institution, has an average class size of 12 students (Sausner, 2003). 
The classification of the university and level of the course have more to do with predicting class size than anything. In general, the larger the school, the larger the class size. According to Primary Research Group (2003), "Colleges with more than 8,000 enrolled students (in all programs not just distance leaning) had an average distance learning class size of nearly 36 students, while all other colleges in all other size categories (all smaller) hovered around 20 per class" (p. 24). The same survey also concluded that graduate courses often have lower class sizes than undergraduate courses (Primary Research Group, 2003). 
As far as the ideal class size, for educational outcomes, the smaller the better. Student attitudes are driven by the level of interaction with the instructor (Tomei, 2003) and can affect their satisfaction with the course. Sausner (2003) observed that in the beginning, some institutions thought class size would not need to be limited; however, because the important student-instructor interaction increases, the class sizes should be limited. In fact, Sausner found that 20-25 students per class is the best range, while Tomei (2004) calculated that 12 was the most optimal. The Western Interstate Commission for Higher Education (WICHE) does not address class size in their Best Practices or Electronically Offered Degree and Certificate Programs document, but suggests "the importance of appropriate interaction (synchronous or asynchronous) between instructor and students and among students is reflected in the design of the program and its courses, and in the technical facilities and services provided" (2001, p. 7).

</file>

<file= AmE06_F31>

Read more books? Talk to people? Who should you tell? How will they react? How and when do you tell your children? What about your job? What about your hair? What about your husband? You feel your life spinning out of control, filled with overwhelming decisions and public conversations about parts of your body you thought good girls kept private. Now everyone wants to take pictures, poke, and look at your breasts. Overnight, you have gone from modest to what feels like an exhibitionist! 
My purpose in writing Dear God, They Say It's Cancer is to help you and me be more than women who do or do not "survive" breast cancer, but, instead, women who seek and find God's purpose in it. God never wastes a hurt. Nothing happens by accident in a believer's life. For each of us, God's plan and purpose will be different. I know my purpose is to share my God-given passion to raise the awareness of prevention and early detection of breast cancer, as well as help those on the breast cancer journey live a quality life in the secure arms of the Lord.
Where to Begin? 
Dear God, They Say It's Cancer will be relevant wherever you are in your breast cancer or faith journey. This is your book to use in whatever way serves you best. There is no right or wrong way. The book starts at the beginning of your breast cancer journey and progresses through decisions, treatments, emotions, things to remember, things to forget, and tools to assist. Along the way it explores a gambit of feelings and circumstances we all share on this journey. 
If newly diagnosed, you can start right from the beginning and journal as you go along, or you might choose to go to the topic touching your life that day. For those of you in the middle or maybe even several years past your breast cancer treatment, let this book be the means to work through any lingering feelings of grief, sorrow, hurt, and brokenness, as well as to remember joys and blessing. Each chapter has the following subsections: 
The Topic Title -- A quote from the Lord and/or a breast cancer sister. 
Dear God -- My letter to God. A window into my breast cancer story. 
A Sister Shares -- A fellow breast cancer sister shares her story. 
Mentoring Moment -- Lessons learned, helpful tips, encouragement. 
God's Love Letter to You -- Paraphrased scriptures to personalize. 
Let's Pray -- Praying through a scripture or praying with me. 
Your Letter to God -- Each chapter ends with encouraging prompts to help you journal your own breast cancer story.
Journaling 
The journal section, "Your Letter to God," is one of my favorite parts of this book. It is an opportunity to record a major event in your life. If this is your first experience journaling, what a great time to start! Healing often happens when we talk about it -- or write about it. Please don't be afraid or apprehensive. Journaling is simply writing down and documenting your feelings. Think of it as writing a letter to God. Not everyone understands how you feel, but God always understands, and He is eager to hear from you. No matter what faith you are or are not, you matter to God. God will fill the pages, nudging you toward helpful things to put down on paper. Maybe He will help you remember a good time to laugh about or a different way of looking at a person who said something hurtful with out even knowing it. I suggest you pray before journaling and then let your pen flow freely. Some days you will write pages; other days you won't feel like writing more than a sentence. Here's what three breast cancer sisters said about journaling:
Once you start writing, it all comes back to you. I could go on and on! This book is exactly what all of us survivors need to document this miserable journey and to remember God's faithfulness and lessons learned. 
-- Darlene Gee 
I kept a journal of my feelings and the things for which I was grateful. 
-- Nancy Tuttle 
Every day I wrote something -- how I was feeling, things family and friends helped with , especially God's special blessings. It is important to journal because you can go back and read how faithful God was and still is! 
-- Linda Taylor
One of my visions for Dear God, They Say It's Cancer is that it be a safe place to document an epic time in your life. Take this book with you to doctor appointments, tests, scans, mammograms, radiation, chemotherapy, the hospital, and wherever the twists and turns of your cancer journey take you. with your book in hand, you can...
oTake notes
oJournal
oRead
oWrite questions to ask the doctors or technicians, and record their answers
oRead an encouraging story from a breast cancer sister
oNote something to remember about a fellow patient you meet
oReceive God's comfort from His "Love Letter" to you
You may need more than the space provided for journaling. If you feel up to a shopping trip, visit a stationery store and pick out a journal that reflects your personality. You may want it to be quite feminine and pink, which is the breast cancer color, or perhaps you prefer something more utilitarian. A spiral-bound notebook works fine too. If a trip to the store is not possible, ask someone to pick up a journal for you. Often, people want to get you something, and I have found you can never have too many journals. 
Your journal will be personal. Don't feel you have to share it with anyone; however, as God did with me, He might give you the opportunity to mentor others with the wisdom and encouragement that comes from putting your thoughts into words. I am going to let you read my journal. I wish there had been a book like this to journal in while I was going through my breast cancer treatment. I grabbed whatever was available at the time. Unfortunately, my journey is scattered between Realtor notepads, scraps of paper in my purse, or whatever was handy by my bedside. I longed for a book to record everything in one place. For an organized person, breast cancer definitely caught me unprepared to make sense out of a confusing period. 
My "Dear God" letters in this book are a compilation of reflections from those scattered notes, as well as current feelings. If you acquired this book after treatment, you may wish to follow my format in looking back at experiences combined with what you are currently encountering. I think you will agree that even after the intense treatment slows down, breast cancer always will be a part of your life. Hearing women speak in terms of how long they have been cancer free assures me breast cancer is now a permanent component of my persona. 
Breast cancer sisters have confided in me that if they didn't journal during their journey, they now regret it. They long for a record of this life-impacting event to leave a legacy for future generations. During the heat of the battle with the daily barrage of decisions and assaults to your body, you often don't feel like doing or thinking anything. However, when the crisis subsides, you will wish you had written things down. 
If you are in the group of women now looking back at the breast cancer journey, it's not too late. This book is for you too. While often writing my "Dear God" in the present, I am actually reflecting back from notes made along the way and from memory. You may be saying to yourself, "Memory? What memory? Between radiation, chemotherapy, Tamoxifen, or some other drug, my memory is shot." I thought the same thing, but when I took pen to paper or fingers to keyboard, God brought it all back to me, and I'm confident He will for you too! 
If you are just beginning the journey and don't feel like journaling right now, just make notes in the lines provided in the margins and come back to it later. If you are in the midst of your journey, some of your entries will be in the present, and other times you will write in the past tense. 
Don't worry about grammar or spelling or sounding articulate. Remember, this is your book, and there is no right or wrong way to use it. By the way, the note-taking area in the margins is for you to use however you choose. You may want to write down what you are feeling as you read that page or note something you want to remember. This area gives you an opportunity to interact with the material you are reading. 
I share parts of Nancy Tuttle's story in this book. Nancy's son, Randall Niles, who accepted Christ during his mom's breast cancer, found all her journals after she went to be with the Lord, and it changed his life. He says: 
One of the last messages Mom received from God was "to write." Although she never fully understood God's purpose for this calling, she accepted the challenge with a servant's heart. As her healThdeclined, she was increasingly frustrated with her inability to focus. She was discouraged that her lack of physical strengThprevented her from accomplishing God's work. 
About one month after her death, God revealed to me that His calling for my mother was not yet complete. Through a series of visits and letters from Christian friends who knew and loved her, God hit my heart with the fact that I was part of this calling! As a prodigal son, I was integral to God's purpose for Mom's life! Filled with conviction, I returned to her desk, computer, files, and bookshelves in order to discover the full impact of God's mission for us -- as a Christian mother and prodigal son. I was stunned to find a wealThof material she had been inspired to write over the years. Letters, journals, testimonies, essays, church devotionals, Bible study notes -- they were fantastic, rich with insight and heart. In tears, I collected my mother's works and spent that weekend reading. In prayer, I humbly realized that I was a prodigal son saved by God's patient grace. Through my mother's words, I saw that my relationship with Jesus was the ultimate hope and purpose for her life of fervent prayer. 
Maybe you are thinking, I don't want anyone reading what I write. That's OK too. No one has to read it but you. Make that clear to your family and friends and even put it in writing! Whether you have journaled regularly for years or this is your first time, let me assure you there is freedom and healing in expressing your thoughts and feelings in writing. 
The best part about journaling is that God is ready to receive our words with a faithful, listening ear. He can take it all: the good, the bad, and the ugly. He beckons, "Come to me, all you who are weary and burdened, and I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you and learn from me, for I am gentle and humble in heart, and you will find rest for your souls. For my yoke is easy and my burden is light" (Matthew 11:28-30). We can't refuse that offer. 
Annually, I disciple a small group of women. Journaling prayers to the Lord is the first spiritual habit I introduce to them. You should hear the rumble around the table: "That doesn't seem natural." "I don't like to write. I just want to talk to God." "This is going to be hard." "Why do we have to do this when He can read our mind?" "I won't have the time!" Maybe these are some of your thoughts too.

</file>

<file= AmE06_F32>

Still, I wanted more money to help out the family and buy my reading materials that now included Ebony and Jet magazines and the Louisiana Weekly. Those were magazines that I had Jean's permission to read. There were certain others that were off-limits and I would later learn a painful lesson about the cost of reading them. 
At night, after reading children's books and the Bible to my little sisters and brothers, I pulled out some of the books about "the revolution" or pamphlets disseminated by the Black Muslims. One night, Jean caught me reading Muhammad Speaks, the newspaper of the Black Muslims and the Nation of Islam. The paper cost twenty-five cents and was cheaper than Ebony magazine. Like Ebony, the Muslim paper had great stories about Black people all over the country. That night I caught a serious ass whipping as Jean tried to beat the hell out of me for reading what she referred to as "hateful trash." I also got whipped for talking back to her, trying to defend and explain why I was reading the newspaper. 
I will never forget that night. For the first time, as she raised her hand to hit me, Jean told me what I had long suspected, that she wanted me to act more like my sisters. "Shut up. Stay inside. Stop trying to run things. Behave!" The wounds did not heal quickly this time. I decided to leave the bodily marks as symbols of my courage and as evidence that I had dared to read about the problems of Black people, problems my mother didn't want me to know about. I was now eight years old, but I already had my feelings and opinions. 
Yet the punishment only made me more determined to know the truth about what was happening to Black people everywhere -- not only in New Orleans but around the country. I found adults and old people in the neighborhood who were willing to talk to me about the Vietnam War and the civil rights movement. Winkie, my friend Harlean's brother and the nephew of Lois Jean, who was Jean's best friend, arrived back from the war. He sat on the porch every day, staring into space and not talking to anyone about his experiences. Every day I walked out to the front yard and waved. "Hey, Winkie, you doing all right?" Winkie never struck up a conversation. He waved back and promised that after the revolution he'd discuss the war. I waited, but Winkie never stirred. In the newspapers and magazines and even some of the books I read, Black people, outside of Kenner anyway, were fighting back. 
There were many who, like Jean, were afraid to discuss civil rights and Black Power. So I began to turn to God for answers. I wrote in my diary that all the adults were "too scared" to make a move or strike back. I wasn't scared, but I was unsure what I could do to help out. I was familiar with the words civil rights, justice, freedom and equality. But no one had a clue in Kenner. If they did, they didn't dare utter the words because I would have tape-recorded the conversation. God, I thought, was not afraid to listen. I did not know what to expect from my prayers, but I wrote constantly, based on everything I heard about God, that I would find the answers. The lesson I took from the beatings and the whippings was how to pray. It was a lesson that stayed with me throughout my childhood and adult life. That was a lesson my parents instructed us to follow and it was one of the few that I obeyed. 
God, as Lionel constantly reminded us, was always with us. I liked that idea. I knew God and enjoyed praying all the time, as early as I can remember. Like most poor Black folks, we talked about God all the time. Lionel and Grandma taught us about angels and saints. We had statues and symbols of saints, angels and crucifixes all around the house, especially in my parents' bedroom where Lionel kept another altar. The family's Bible had colored pictures that we were told never to touch. Lionel's drawings of angels, like St. Michael and St. Anthony, and bottles of holy water filled each and every room of the house on Filmore Street. My first known prayer usually went something like this: "God, I know you made everything in creation -- the birds, trees, flowers and everything underneath the stars. Yet my mother, who you created by creating her mother, is a little short on patience today. Please work with Jean and tell her to be gentle to her children, especially me, because I am trying so hard to please her." As always, I made a promise to God to give up something in exchange for my prayers being answered. Often the only thing I could bargain with was food. In exchange for one of my prayers being answered, I ate only one peanut butter sandwich. As I began to earn some money, I put more pennies each week in the "poor box" at Our Lady of Perpetual Help Catholic Church, located right near the train tracks. 
We talked about God, but mine was not a household that talked a lot about love. My grandmothers affirmed me in so many ways, but the lessons were not personal; they were mostly about what we owed to others. In our home you were congratulated for getting the clothes off the line before it rained or for going outside to pick peppers or okra. When you "did good" God was happy. Lionel, Jean, and Grandma were happy. And because God was always watching, God was happy since he was always part of the conversation. Jean's Baptist upbringing and strong beliefs, which held sway over her although she didn't attend church regularly, and Lionel's Catholicism combined to create a heady Baptist/Catholic orthodoxy that scared us kids into obedience and faith. But because we were drilled with the notion that we had to be good to others and were taught to give back and sacrifice for our family, this shaped our character and, although Jean didn't know it, formed the basis for my sense of politics and social justice. They wouldn't have said it like that. Jean was afraid I'd be disappointed and hurt if I knew too much about what was happening beyond our little community. 
She knew about the horrible slaying of young Emmett Till; about the civil rights workers Andrew Goodman, James Chaney, and Michael Schwerner, who were brutally killed in Mississippi; and that hundreds of children, some not much older than me, had been arrested in places like Birmingham, Alabama. She wanted to protect me from that fate. When she punished me she wanted to take the rebelliousness, the curiosity from my spirit -- traits that could easily get a Black person in the South killed whether they were in the movement or not. But that didn't mean she didn't want me to care about people in need. She was simply sheltering me in the only way she knew how. 
I prayed, I wrote and I read. And once I learned to read and understand what was happening around me, I wanted to participate in the struggle. I had fantasies of leaving Kenner, Filmore Street and "making something of myself." All so Grandma, Jean and Jean's mama could be proud. Living so close to the river, I thought the best way to leave home was to cruise down the Mississippi until we reached the clean, warm waters of the Gulf of Mexico. From the Gulf, I could explore the new world and see the Caribbean or go to Africa. I imagined the Mississippi River was actually the Nile, and from atop the levee, built to protect the city from flooding, I could see the giant Egyptian pyramids and talk to the pharaohs and the living gods of ancient Africans that I had read about. I enjoyed sitting on the levee. It was my mountaintop. 
Other times I imagined leaving Kenner on one of the trains my grandpa and uncle Sporty worked on. The daily noise and movement of trains coming and going past our house sparked this fantasy. I'd leave home and go to some faraway city in old Europe. Sitting on the front porch we often watched Uncle Sporty, a porter on Amtrak, wave to us as the train pulled out of Kenner, bound for New York or Illinois. While the old folks talked, I would drift away and see myself in Vienna, Austria, boarding the Orient Express to Venice, a far more romantic trip than those Uncle Sporty made. I read about those cities in magazines. I wanted to leave Kenner and go to Europe. Perhaps the best way to leave, I thought, was just to catch a plane right down Airline Highway at the New Orleans International Airport. Years later, when I did leave Kenner, I sent Jean postcards from all over America, Africa, the Soviet Union and Europe. My imagination as a child helped to spark my interest in traveling and meeting people from all over the world. First, though, I had to finish my education. I wanted to learn everything about the world around me. 
I spent my first few years at Ralph J. Bunche Elementary School, where a new Head Start program to teach poor kids was introduced. My mother signed up her three little girls to be part of the program and dropped us off, said hello to her old friends and caught the bus to Mrs. Hilbert's downtown. School was fun, but I soon learned it was for kids, not for someone like me. I wanted to grow up quickly and volunteer in the civil rights movement. By the time I turned eight, America was already changing. In 1964 the Civil Rights Act was passed by Congress, outlawing discrimination in public facilities. In 1965 the Voting Rights Act was passed, and in 1966, Lyndon Johnson launched the Great Society and the War on Poverty. These were the historical touchstones of my childhood and they created a charged, hopeful atmosphere in the neighborhood that encouraged my curiosity and inspired me. The leadership in the civil rights movement in my neighborhood came from the Clay and Burton families. One day word spread around town that Reverend Arthur Paul Clay, pastor of Mt. Zion Missionary Baptist Church on Clay Street, would host Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Clay, a member of the Southern Christian Leadership Conference, was a prominent preacher in Kenner and a giant political figure. I hung out with Byron, one of his young sons. Byron taught me how to distribute leaflets about Dr. King's appearance. Naturally I wanted to get paid for it. Nevertheless, I got more than money by learning about the movement. Something was going on around me and everyone was talking about Dr. King. 
A week later we got our chance to hear Dr. King on the radio, but my parents forbade us from working in any way with people involved in the movement. Of course, I didn't exactly follow Jean's orders on this one. At school my friends with parents active in the movement would bring me materials to read at night. I felt proud to know people who worked with Dr. King and it led me to ask the old people for stories they had heard or read about him. And so the day Martin Luther King was shot in Memphis, Tennessee, changed my life forever. I made the decision to go to Taylor Street, the next block over, to officially join the movement and work with Mrs. Rosemary Minor and Mrs. Felice McMiller, who had become active in both politics and the movement. I was only eight years old, but I wanted to get involved. I got tired of waiting to grow up. I joined the movement on Thursday, April 4, 1968.

</file>

<file= AmE06_F33>

Election Day is torture. You've finished crafting the message, cutting the ads, knocking on doors and reading the polls. Everything that you can do is done. But everything that really matters is yet to happen. It's all over, as they say, but the voting.

On election night 2006, I was in a suite on the eleventh floor of the Hyatt Regency Washington on Capitol Hill with a small group of staff, friends, and family. While we waited, I paced the room and picked at cold calamari and oversize cookies. Having nothing to do brings out the worst in me -- I get antsy, irritable, and hungry. I was not on any ballot this year. But the election was as personally important to me as any I'd ever lived through. I was the senator in charge of the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee (DSCC), the political organization responsible for all the Democratic Senate races. Two years earlier, I had taken the job because I worried that if we lost three more Senate seats, beyond the 45 that we held, there would be no check on the Bush administration's policies, which were doing so much damage to the country I love. For two years, I had been obsessed with preparing for this election. I had recruited candidates. I had raised money. I had approved senior staffs. And I had become friends with many of the Senate hopefuls whose fates were being decided on that night.

Now, waiting for the first returns -- the polls had closed in Virginia and Ohio less than an hour earlier -- I knew that Democrats were, amazingly enough, on the edge of actually taking back the Senate majority. To do it, we had to pick up six of eight vulnerable Republican seats and hold on to every Democratic seat, including six tough ones. Supposedly, during a card game on Air Force One a few weeks before election day, President Bush had said that for Democrats to take back the Senate, "Schumer would need to pull an inside straight." I was still waiting to see the cards. For the 400th time that day, I called J.B. Poersch, executive director of the DSCC, for an update on the exit polls -- voter information gathered on behalf of the networks and craved by campaign staffs, which are ravenous for any morsel of data.

"How's it look?" I asked as he picked up before it even rang.

"Mostly good."

"How about the big four?" These were four close states -- Missouri, Montana, Tennessee, and Virginia -- where we would need three wins.

"Missouri's okay. Montana's tighter." In Missouri, we had Claire McCaskill, the popular state treasurer who had almost won the governorship two years earlier. In Montana, Jon Tester, a lifelong farmer with a quarter-inch crew cut and a keg for a belly, was our candidate. Both were trying to unseat Republican incumbents. "Tennessee?"

"Not so good."

"Virginia?"

"The first precincts are reporting."

"And?"

"I don't know."

Suddenly, every BlackBerry in the room was buzzing. "Chuck!" three aides yelled at once. "They're calling Ohio for Brown!"

Phil Singer, the DSCC's communications director -- and the best in the business -- came running into the room. "They're calling Ohio-"

"I know."

A staffer handed me a cell phone. "Sherrod Brown," she mouthed.

"Call you back, J.B." I said, pulling one phone from my right ear and putting another to my left. "Sherrod! You ran a great race! See you in the Senate." Sherrod Brown had beaten incumbent Mike DeWine by running an energetic populist campaign in Ohio -- a state that, two years after making the difference for Bush, had turned bluer than a clear sky.

One down. Five to go.

Again, the room erupted in BlackBerry buzz.

"Chuck," everyone yelled, "They're calling..." Voices were lost in a jumble.

"Pennsylvania for Casey!" screamed half the room.

"And New Jersey for Menendez!" screamed the other half.

Bob Casey, pro-life and pro-gun, had unified the Pennsylvania Democratic Party and trounced the ultra-conservative Senator Rick Santorum. Bob Menendez, who had been appointed to his seat by New Jersey Governor Jon Corzine less than a year earlier, had overcome a barrage of nasty attacks to notch a solid win. They represented one pickup, in Pennsylvania, and one save, in New Jersey.

A minute later, two cell phones were thrust at me. "Bob!" I cheered. "Congratulations!"

Two down, four to go.

While trying to get some sleep a few days after the final results came in, I felt a familiar unease settling over me. As well as we had done, I was worried that the party I had grown up in, and in which I had a newly prominent role, would misinterpret the results. Just as Bush's reelection in 2004 was not the mandate that he claimed it was, Democrats' impressive victories in 2006 were not the sign of a lasting Democratic majority. If those 11,000 voters (9,000 in Virginia and 2,000 in Montana), out of the millions who had cast their ballots, had made a different choice on election night, it would have been a good night -- a four-seat pickup -- but we would still have been the minority party. As the celebration continued and newly emboldened Democrats strode across the country proudly proclaiming our party's rebirth, it seemed that in the euphoria we were forgetting a critical truth about the election: It was a great night for the Democrats, but mostly because it was such a tough year for the country -- and because George W. Bush was stubborn and intransigent.

From the beginning, Harry Reid and I knew that 75 percent of the election would be about Bush and 25 percent would be about us. In the end, we played our 25 percent well and they played their 75 percent terribly. We recruited great candidates, spoke to the middle class, and drew a sharp contrast with Bush's failures -- from the continuing violence in Iraq, to the Republicans' culture of corruption, to Bush's assertions about the economy that were out of touch with the nagging financial concerns of most Americans. But nevertheless, the overwhelming reason for our victory was that Bush had screwed up.

In 2006, Republicans' mistakes and our campaigns made a lot of voters willing to consider Democrats, but in 2008 and beyond, we won't have George W. Bush or Tom DeLay to kick around anymore. It seemed obvious to me that the next couple of elections will be much more about what the Democratic Party offers; we will have to show voters why they should stick with us. Even if we are able to recruit the best candidates and raise more money again, it all too likely won't be enough. Unless we build on our values to generate better ideas, sharper policies, and a clearer vision, we will be in trouble. Unless we are able to answer the question that Democrats are always asked -- "What does the Democratic Party stand for?" -- voters will go right back to voting for the Republican Party they have been supporting for the last 25 years. Our victory was well deserved, but the Democratic Party still needs a new paradigm.

About a year before the election, during a particularly frustrating Democratic issues meeting -- periodic gatherings of party leaders and strategists to help decide what the Democratic platform should be -- a realization hit home. The meetings were always full of smart and dedicated people, each of whom I'm sure could have generated powerful and important ideas on his or her own. But the product of the meetings too often turned into pablum -- big ideas were made small; tough choices were made weak; bold plans were made timid. A lot of our best stuff was drowned in a sea of consensus.

In this particular meeting, we were talking about energy independence. Of course, it was suggested that the Democratic platform should include higher CAFE standards. Short for "corporate average fuel economy," these are the fuel-efficiency standards that are set for car companies. Raising CAFE standards should be a no-brainer for Democrats -- it would save people money at the pump, reduce our dependence on foreign oil, and help the environment.

"Let's do it!" I said. "It's a win, win, win."

"Hang on," someone stood up. "We can't do that. In Michigan, we depend on car companies and the United Auto Workers. They're against this. If CAFE standards are included, we'll walk out." So, CAFE standards were taken out. I left the meeting disturbed and pessimistic.

At these issues meetings, we were able to come up with some specific, trenchant proposals -- raising the minimum wage, making college tuition tax deductible -- that were meaningful and important and could win consensus in 2006. We rode them to victory against Bush, when voters just needed a feel for how we would govern. But they did not answer the essential question -- what do Democrats stand for? Almost every Democrat, in every corner of the country, is still asked this question almost every day.

In 2008 and beyond, a greater percentage of the electorate will focus on our vision. We will need to be clearer, bolder, broader, and more specific. In those meetings, I saw that it is just not possible by consensus.

The last time a political party created a new and successful model was in 1994. That year, Newt Gingrich did it with the Contract with America. After the meeting on CAFE standards, I kept asking myself, how did he do it? I wrestled with this conundrum for weeks. And then I had an epiphany. Newt Gingrich's Contract with America was not created as a consensus document of the Republican Party; it was the manifesto of a renegade who was trying to shake up his own party. It was aimed far more at Republicans than at Democrats -- more at Bob Michel than at Bill Clinton. I became convinced that instead of calibrating our direction with careful tactical decisions made in private gatherings, the solution was to take a vision -- a set of ideas uncompromised by countless chefs, each adding his or her favored spirit to the brew -- present it to the public and see how it fared. If it caught on, the party would respond. If not, someone else would present a better one.

That's why I wrote this book.

For years, whenever friends or colleagues had suggested I write a book, on the 1994 battle for gun control or my 1998 race against Senator Alfonse D'Amato for instance, I had demurred. But while sitting in that meeting watching the Democratic platform being whittled down, I decided to give it a shot. I had no ambition to create our entire vision on my own, nor any illusion that I alone could define a new paradigm. But I did have ideas and a perspective that I wanted to share. And I knew they would never make it out of those meetings intact.

I wrote this book, which is a reflection of my own particular perspective and vision, to try to help move the Democratic Party in the right direction. While I certainly do not have all the answers -- I'm not even sure of all the questions -- I feel that my background and my 30 years in politics give me a unique perspective that I yearn to share with my party and my fellow Americans.

Much of this book was written before election night 2006. But I am convinced that it is even more relevant now than it was when I started -- after 2006, people are more open to our message. If Democrats hope to expand our razor-thin majority, if we want to win back the White House, if we dream of turning Democratic values into a paradigm and platform that will make our party the majority party for a generation, we have a long, long way to go. Bush's failures inspired Americans in blue, purple, and red states to give us a chance.

</file>

<file= AmE06_F34>

Worn out synthetic fields to become fuel

Target Technologies International Inc. (TTII), a material and logistics outsourcer to the synthetic turf industry, reports it has a solution to the safe and efficient disposal of old artificial turf sports field systems.
Utilizing its own proprietary technology -- in combination with TTII's supply chain network -- Lafarge/Systech will convert obsolete artificial turf sports fields into an efficient, alternate energy source to power its cement kilns. "This project diverts non-recyclable fuel-bearing material from landfills as it replaces fossil fuels," said Shawn McMullen, VP Business Development, Systech Environmental Corp. "It helps to conserve natural resources like coal and sand that is normally used in the cement making process."
With typical field life spans of only eight to 12 years, municipalities and school boards are finding it necessary to plan not only for their new field's installation, but also for its eventual demise. With modern synthetic turf fields containing combinations of turf fibers and Infill materials (crumb rubber granules and/or silica sand); once removed, most old fields have ended up in landfills.
Initially, Systech will accept recyclable field materials at the Lafarge plants in Whitehall,PA, Harleyville SC, and Calera AL.
Propelled by a steadily increasing population, all-weather 24-7 playability, and growing concerns over the high water requirements of natural turf fields, the requirement for new and replacement fields will keep the synthetic turf industry growth rate at phenomenal levels for many years to come, says the release from TTII.
Texas puts turf through extended drought tests
SAN ANTONIO  -  Tests with a new drought simulator in southern San Antonio will help determine the toughest turfgrass in Texas. The 5,000-sq.-ft. simulator built by the Texas A&M University System's Irrigation Technology Center will help test turfgrass' ability to survive and recuperate from drought. 
After the structure was completed in July, a 60-day "drought" began on 25 varieties of turfgrass, said Dr. Guy Fipps, Texas Cooperative Extension irrigation specialist. 
Research plots are located on either end of the structure, and a galvanized metal roof is positioned in the middle. When rain falls, the roof automatically moves to shield the plots being tested under drought conditions. Thirty minutes after the rain stops, the roof moves back, Fipps said. 
This type of information is badly needed, Fipps said, because the state frequently goes without rain for six to eight weeks in the summer. Also, landscapes account for an average of 40% of the municipal water usage, he said. Agriculture uses more than 60% of all the water used in the state. 
"Texas does not have enough water to meet future needs," he said. "Irrigation is the biggest user." 
The simulator is one of only two in Texas, he said. The other is used by U.S. Department of Agriculture researchers at the Bushland Agricultural Research Service center to test crop water needs. Only a few drought simulators are in operation in the U.S., Fipps said. 
But the San Antonio version has some unique features, he said. The simulator takes only two minutes to cover the plots and is one of the fastest in the nation. And Irrigation Technology Center personnel are working to cut that time to 30 seconds. 
The simulator also has a low profile - 4 feet off of the ground - to give it stability in windstorms, he said. 
Besides, Fipps said, "I think it's the coolest-looking," The others (in the United States) are basically a metal building on rails. This is one of the largest and fastest." 
Wayne LaPor, professor emeritus in the department of agricultural and biological engineering at Texas A&M University, designed the drive and pulley system of the simulator. Dr. Chris Braden, Irrigation Technology Center associate, was in charge of construction. 
The trials are under the direction of Fipps and Dr. David Chalmers, Texas Cooperative Extension turfgrass specialist. 
Common warm-season grasses such as Bermuda, zoysia and St. Augustine are being tested in 200 plots, each 4 ft. X 4 ft., and being compared to buffalo grass. 
When the simulated drought was completed, the grasses went into a recovery phase. In that phase, the plots received rainfall and were irrigated according to TexasET data. The TexasET (evapotranspiration) network and Web site (http://TexasET.tamu.edu ) helps users determine the irrigation needs of landscapes and crops. A second set of plots was planted in October and will be put under drought conditions next summer. 
The results from the first year of the 2-year drought study will be available in a couple of months, Fipps said. 
The San Antonio Water System and the Rio Grande Basin Initiative provided funding to construct the simulator. The San Antonio Water System and the Turfgrass Producers Association sponsor the turfgrass study. 
The simulator "is the first of which we hope the Irrigation Technology Center will have to address irrigation water needs in Texas," Fipps said. 

Gamecock trainers get tough on staph
The University of South Carolina, Columbia, instituted a multi-pronged approach to reduce the risk of staph infections among student athletes. 
In addition to using the anti-microbial SportsAide system to fight the spread of bacterial infections throughout its athletic complex, it has instituted other policies such as banning the sharing of towels, replacing bar soup with liquid soap and being especially careful to cover wounds. SportsAide, provided by SportCoatings, Rochester Hills, MI, is a micro technology that creates a durable anti-microbial bond on sports surfaces and controls the growth of a wide array of bacteria, mold, fungi and algae.
 "The University of South Carolina is very concerned about the health and well-being of our student-athletes," said Athletics Director Eric Hyman. "While we can't completely eradicate the risk of staph infections in contact sports, we've adopted a policy to use the most advanced technology available to provide the safest environment possible for our student athletes."
Staph infections like methicillin resistant Staphylococcus Aureus (MRSA) have recently benched Paul Pierce and Delonte West of the Boston Celtics and three starting players for Stanford University football. This community-acquired antibiotic-resistant strand of staph has become a common, insidious visitor in sports teams, being passed person to person and via contaminated athletic equipment, facilities and fabrics.
 "The spread of MRSA is something we, as an athletics training staff, are very cognizant of and concerned about," said Dr. Rod Walters, USC Director of Sports Medicine. "If not caught soon enough and treated properly, MRSA can lead to some serious consequences. By applying this product, we are making an investment in the continued good health of our student-athletes." 
Since 2003 there have been two fatal cases of staph in college football.  In most cases the source of transmission is person-to-person contact.
"It happens very innocently, an infected player  - who at the time probably believes he simply has a spider bite  -  uses a towel, treadmill, training table or whirlpool. The staph gets transferred onto the surface where the next athlete to use that piece of equipment picks it up  -  entering the body through a shaving nick, bruise or scrape," said Walters.
Later this year, USC will treat its synthetic turf fields with TurfAide, which provides antimicrobial protection to the fibers and infill of synthetic turf systems, claimed a news release from General Sports Venue.
Celebration Bermuda gaining favor on southern fields
Celebration, which is gaining favor for sports fields in the South, is a patented, proprietary Bermudagrass developed by Sod Solutions of Mt. Pleasant, SC. 
The turfgrass is licensed in Florida only to qualified members of the Florida Sod Growers Cooperative, a trade association of more than 70 independent turfgrass producers in the state. Elsewhere, it is available through a network of licensed producers across the southern half of the U.S.  
At the University of Arkansas, a multiyear study of 48 Bermudagrass cultivars found that Celebration had the fastest recovery from divot injury among all vegetatively propagated Bermudagrasses.  A 2005 study at North Carolina State showed similar results noting, "From zero cover, Celebration achieved the greatest recovery at 86% after four weeks." The next best were two cultivars each with 70% recovery after four weeks.
 "It's really, really, really good for athletic fields," says Dave Dymond, general manager of H&H Sod Farm in Kenansville and president of the FSGC. "If anybody asks me if we've got anything better than [the popular cultivars] for athletic fields, I get excited about Celebration. Its recovery is far and above what you normally see and that's usually what [the buyers] want. It makes a rapid recovery from any wear. It's an aggressive grower and will fill in those divots and stuff very rapidly."
Dymond continues, "Sometimes they have low-maintenance scenarios and [Celebration] seems to hang in there fairly well under those conditions.
You could say it tolerates a high school or municipal budget, too. That's a perfect way to describe it."
Mike Pope, sales manager of Bethel Farms in Arcadia agrees.  "The nice thing about Celebration, it's so aggressive and its growth habit is so tight that it actually squeezes out competing weeds, even common Bermudas. When sports facilities renovate their fields, one of the big issues is that you seem to get a lot of weed pressure a year or two after the renovation and the grass is hard to maintain after the renovation."
 "Celebration pretty much takes care of any competing weeds. Your herbicide application rates are much lower and it actually gets you playing on that field a whole lot quicker after installation," says Pope.
As for softness, other findings from North Carolina State University confirmed that "Celebration exhibited the lowest surface hardness" of any cultivar tested noting that, "Excessive surface hardness has been directly correlated to an increase in player injury on athletic fields."
In addition to softness and durability, Celebration has been hailed as an extremely drought tolerant turfgrass. Midway through a 5-year study at the University of Arkansas, Celebration produced 53% more roots under drought conditions than any of the other five cultivars involved in the study.  In 

addition, Celebration had the highest evapotranspiration rate (meaning it displayed the most efficient use of water) and had less leaf firing.
These attributes and others caught the attention of Bill Ward, parks and recreation manager for the city of North Port.  Ward was looking for a grass for his new soccer complex that encompasses more than 300,000 sq. ft. of playing surface. He wanted something that would take more wear and tear, and offer greater stability than the cultivars currently popular for Florida sports fields.
He visited the polo fields at nearby Lakewood Ranch, where Celebration was installed, and his first impression of the turf was "how carpet-like it looked." He was equally impressed with how well it has held up under polo play. Two-months after installation of the rolled sod, Ward is impressed with how quickly it tacked down and that it was already "thick and green."
Gary Bradshaw, manager of SMR Farms, which supplied the Celebration for North Port and the polo fields and golf courses at Lakewood Ranch, is confident Ward made the right decision. "The grass is holding up real well," Bradshaw said. "Everybody who deals with it, they just love it. It holds a little deeper green color and it's a lot more dense and the recovery time for spike marks, divots and wear and tear is a whole lot less than for [a popular cultivar]."
Sod Solutions, Inc. is an international turfgrass developer that has patented and released several improved warm-season varieties of turfgrass. 
Ted Williams' high school field reborn
At first the project seemed to be overwhelming. It was more than the members of the SoCal (Southern California) Chapter of the Sports Turf Managers Association (STMA) probably wanted to take on.

Then, on further consideration, it became a possibility.
And, finally, when the chapter realized what kind of support it would receive from individuals and businesses, it was something that was definitely doable.
Rick Covert, STMA secretary and Facilities Supervisor/Landscape at Miramar College was on a walk-through at Petco Park with Ron Lardizibal, Athletic Director at San Diego's Herbert Hoover High.

</file>

<file= AmE06_F35>

This struck me as a strange state of affairs. As one historian justly observes, the Pueblo Revolt remains "the point of highest drama in New Mexico's long history." From the Indian point of view, the Revolt, in its complete eradication of the European oppressor from the people's homeland for more than a decade, far outmatches in terms of lasting impact the famous massacre of Custer's army by the Sioux and Cheyenne at Little Big Horn in 1876. In its tragic dimension, the Revolt and reconquest took a toll among the Puebloans every bit as dolorous as the better-known campaigns of the Cherokee Trail of Tears or the Navajo Long Walk to Bosque Redondo. 
As I immersed myself in research on the Pueblo Revolt, I discovered that the Spanish record of that conflagration was voluminous and vivid. Yet the documents preserved in archives in Seville and Mexico City represent but a portion of the testimony recorded at the time by friars and governors, for great piles of those documents were burned by the Puebloans during the Revolt. And who knows how many pueblos today still hoard, in secret repositories, long-lost chronicles seized from the oppressor in 1680? What would a scholar not give to be able to peruse the documents Bill Whatley told me about that October morning at Jemez! 
Watching the men strike flakes of chert free from their cores, I mused further -- about just what value those hoarded documents must possess for the Jemez. As I would come to see, in struggling to fathom photocopies of records from the archives in Mexico City, the orthography of handwritten Spanish in the seventeenth century is so arcane that only experts in a field called paleography ("old writing") can read it. It seemed doubtful that anyone at Jemez could decipher the records seized in 1680 and guarded so zealously ever since. In Ladakh, I had seen Buddhist monks reverently curating ancient scrolls that they had no idea how to read. But that veneration could be explained by faith: the scrolls had the power of holy relics. Perhaps for the Jemez, the three-century-old scribblings that they kept hidden away from the eyes of prying scholars were relics in a reverse sense: talismans of the tyrannic power the Puebloans had wrested from the Spanish in 1680, charms against the oppression they had borne ever returning in full force. 
In any event, all kinds of knowledge of what scholar France V. Scholes called "troublous times in New Mexico" vanished in the bonfires and seizures of 1680. Santa Fe, for instance, was founded in 1610, yet the earliest surviving map of the town was drawn only in 1767. Of course there were earlier maps, but they have disappeared. As a consequence, we do not know precisely where the climactic battle in August 1680 between the Puebloans and Spanish, culminating in the siege of Santa Fe, took place. 
In another respect, the Spanish record is fundamentally unreliable. So sure were the officers and settlers in New Mexico that they carried a superior civilization into the midst of benighted savages, so arrogant were the friars in wielding the absolute truth of their Catholic faith to wipe out the "hideous apostasies" of the native religion, that it is frequently impossible to read between the lines of Spanish dogma to figure out just what was going on at Taos or Jemez or Acoma. 
As for the Pueblo record of the Revolt, it looms for the Anglo scholar of today as a yawning void. An old truism of the Southwest has it that Spanish persecution in New Mexico was so severe that it drove the Pueblo religion (and indeed, the very culture) underground. Underground, it remains today. Yet the secrecy that lies at the heart of Puebloan life goes far deeper than a response to the Spanish. In basic ways, it long predates European contact, forming an intrinsic feature of the culture. In 2004, moreover, it has become harder for an outsider to learn anything new about the Pueblo belief system or Pueblo history than at any time since the 1870s, when Anglo ethnographers began working in the Southwest. 
At the time of Coronado's entrada in 1540, Spain was at the height of its glory, the most powerful nation in Europe and perhaps in the world. Its monarch, Charles I, had been elected Holy Roman Emperor in 1519; as the Hapsburg Charles V, by 1540 he presided over a domain that stretched from the Netherlands to North Africa, from Austria to Mexico and Peru. Charles's reign provided the seedbed for an unprecedented florescence of Spanish culture, bringing forth in subsequent generations such writers as Cervantes and Lope de Vega, such painters as El Greco and Velázquez. 
In contrast, by the 1670s, on the eve of the Pueblo Revolt, Spain had become a distinctly second-rate power. She had suffered not only the crushing decimation of her Armada by the British fleet in 1588, but had lost one war after another, in France, in Holland, in Italy, and elsewhere. Catalonia and Portugal had successfully revolted against Castilian rule. Under the feckless Charles II, Spain suffered an irreversible decline. The Venetian ambassador to Spain characterized Charles's reign as "an uninterrupted series of calamities." Thanks to warfare and the exodus of Spaniards to the colonies, the population of Castile itself declined from 6.5 million in 1600 to 5 million in 1680. Beginning in 1677, earthquakes, plague, and crop failures dealt further blows to the mother country. In cultural terms, the vaunted "Golden Century" had come to its close. 
The decline of Spain had a bitter relevance for New Mexico. No part of the sprawling colonial empire of New Spain lay farther from its capital in Mexico City than the northern hinterland called Nuevo México. By horse and cart, it was a journey of six months and 2,000 miles from Santa Fe to Mexico City. For a governor to send a message to the capital and receive his answer thus routinely took at least a year. To communicate with the king in Madrid took considerably longer. 
As Castile preoccupied itself with threats and troubles nearer home, the remote colony luxuriated in an anarchic autonomy that spawned grotesque abuses. Settlers routinely ignored Spanish laws promulgated since the 1570s to protect natives from the excesses of the first conquistadors. More than one governor of New Mexico set himself up as an absolute despot, growing rich off the labor of Indians reduced to virtual slavery. More than one friar in the colony arrogated to himself the right to punish native "heresies" with torture and execution. Sexual exploitation of Puebloan women, including rape, was commonplace, even on the part of priests sworn to celibacy. As if all this were not burden enough for the Pueblos, for eighty-two years after the conquest church and state in New Mexico waged a relentless struggle against each other. There was no possible way for a "good Indian" to serve both masters. 
It is not, perhaps, going too far to see New Mexico in the 1670s as a colony gone collectively mad. Freed by Spain's troubles at home from the corrective hand of humanizing civilization, the leading figures of Nuevo México lived and ruled as they pleased. A stunning symptom of that madness is that the Spaniards never saw the Revolt coming. As the colony's governor complained in an official dispatch, written less than a month after he had lost Santa Fe, as he straggled south down the Rio Grande with his fellow survivors, the uprising was "wholly contrary to the existing peace and tranquility" of the colony. The "cunning and cleverness of the rebels," the governor ruefully confessed, was abetted by "a certain degree of negligence" on his own part, for he simply did not believe the first rumors of rebellion that reached his ears. 
Pursuing my research on the Pueblo Revolt, I read everything I could get my hands on, from the eyewitness Spanish accounts to modern histories of New Mexico to archaeological site reports to the many scholarly articles about the Revolt, as well as a novel based upon it, published in 1973 under the by now very un-PC title, Red Power on the Rio Grande. I also visited today's pueblos, and spoke to as many Puebloans as I could -- not very many, as I was hardly surprised to discover -- who were willing to share their thoughts about the Revolt with an outsider. 
From the start, however, I did not intend to write another quasi-objective history of the uprising, in the vein of Robert Silverberg's The Pueblo Revolt (1970) or Andrew L. Knaut's The Pueblo Revolt of 1680 (1995). I wanted instead to undertake a journey through the landscape where the Revolt had unfurled. Just as I had found while researching my previous book about the Anasazi, hiking into the wilderness gave me at least as much insight into my subject as hours of interviewing or burrowing through stacks and archives. A petroglyph carved on an obscure basalt boulder sometime after 1540 captured the shock of first contact better than any number of firsthand accounts. A day spent contemplating the ruins of an ancestral village, all but lost in the forest on top of a high plateau, conveyed to me the integrity of Pueblo life before the Spanish came better than some dry ethnographic report. 
Some readers may find my take on the Revolt one-sided -- too sympathetic to the Puebloans, too hard on the Spanish. If so, so be it. My book, to repeat, is not meant to be an "objective" history, but rather a bearing of empathic witness to one of the great triumphs and tragedies of American history -- not a disinterested recitation of events, but an engagé account of what I found in New Mexico. 
The easiest trap in such a work, of course, is to romanticize Native Americans, à la Dances with Wolves. I hope that I have retained a healthy skepticism about the pueblos, an awareness of the limitations of oral tradition, a clear-eyed appreciation of the ravages that acculturation has wrought upon today's inhabitants of Acoma or Hopi or Jemez. But I began and ended my effort in admiration of the culture of the pueblos, as of that of their Anasazi ancestors. 
About the sixteenth- and seventeenth-century Spaniards, I am far more ambivalent. For every Bartolomé de las Casas, the Dominican friar who became the eloquent champion of the Indians in the New World, there were a dozen Pedro de Alvarados (the genocidal conqueror of highland Guatemala). 
The central mystery of the Pueblo Revolt remains what happened between 1680 and 1692, during the years the Spanish were absent from New Mexico. Even for today's Puebloans, I suspect, those twelve years linger as something of a lacuna in the middle of their long past in the Southwest. 
Yet of the scores of tantalizing hints as to what transpired during that Puebloan interregnum, I would hope that I have made a partial synthesis, one that previous commentators have not attempted. The ambiguities of that period do not prevent our forming an understanding of what is still one of the most astonishing chapters in North American history. 
And I hope that my readers, as they accompany me on my rambles through New Mexico, can taste some of the joy I felt in lonely canyons and on lordly mesa tops, some of the curiosity that tantalized me as I talked with Puebloans who told me only what they thought it was safe for me to hear, some of the fussy pleasure I found in squeezing latent meanings out of old texts. This book is meant as a passionate personal journey into the heart of a mystery. I do not presume to have emerged, on the last page, with anything more than a key to the puzzle. But that key, if I have succeeded, at least fits into the lock. And a lock can be opened with a turn of the hand, or a twist of the mind....

</file>

<file= AmE06_F36>

FRENCH EXPLORATION AND SETTLEMENT.
With the French and Spanish continually at war in the first half of the
sixteenth century, French King Francis I saw colonial expansion as a way
to challenge his enemy's power in Europe. In 1524 he sent Giovanni de
Verrazzano to explore the coast of North America from Carolina to Maine.
Ten years later, he sent Jacques Cartier to find a route through the newly
identified land mass to the riches of the Far East. Cartier sailed up the St.
Lawrence as far as the point where Quebec City would be founded and
met Indians eager to trade furs for metal goods, which suggests that
Europeans had been there before.
Cartier made several more exploratory trips and the French established two short-lived settlements in South Carolina and Florida, but it
would be the fortunate choice of Samuel de Champlain to accompany an
expedition in 1604 that established a permanent French presence in North
America. The company was sent to develop the fur trade, explore for
mineral wealth, establish settlements, locate the elusive "Northwest Passage," and, of course, convert the Indians to Roman Catholicism.
Champlain managed to develop good relations with the native peoples
but it would be the Jesuits who arrived in 1625, and the fur trade that
opened full relationships with the Europeans.
In 1663 Louis XIV made Canada a royal province. The fur trade
was established, food supply was nearly self-sufficient and generous land
policies meant that the people who had settled were better off than their
compatriots at home. Although the home government opposed it, Governor-General Louis de Buade, comte de Frontenac, worked to extend
French power into the interior. "Interested almost exclusively in the fur
trade, the French abhorred any idea of displacing the native Indians,
whom they cultivated as suppliers." French traders brought more tribes
into the French trading network and by the early 1670s they had reached
the far end of Lake Superior. In 1673, a party traveled down the Mississippi to the mouth of the Arkansas River, turning back in fear of Spanish
opposition. Nine years later, La Salle would travel to the mouth of the
great river and claim the whole territory for Louis XIV.
As the St. Lawrence Valley was being settled, the Hudson River
Valley was also taking on a European look. By 1614 a fortified trading
post was established near present-day Albany and soon Dutch settlers
arrived to support a growing fur trade with the Iroquois who were also
trading with the French. Between 1675 and 1677 the English Governor of
New York, Edmond Andros, made an alliance with the Iroquois in which
he agreed to support their domination of the Algonkians and they would
join the English against the French incursions from Canada.
THE UPPER MISSISSIPPI VALLEY.
Population of the French territory centered in Quebec (founded in 1608),
Trois-Rivieres (1634), and Ville Marie (later Montreal, 1642). The immense
size of the land claimed by France made it necessary for them to establish
a chain of forts and outposts for protection and communication. In 1688
Father Jacques Marquette founded the first permanent settlement in
Michigan at Sault Ste. Marie in Chippewa country and in 1701 Antoine
Cadillac founded Detroit as an important point for French control of the
fur trade. But these were small outposts in a large region, the domain of
the Indian hunter and the traders or coureurs de bois, of missionaries,
explorers and soldiers. By this time French-claimed territory in North
America occupied three-fourths of the continent, from Louisiana to
Hudson's Bay and from Newfoundland to the unexplored territories
beyond the Great Lakes. John Koegel summarized the more important
French settlements by date of settlement. His list gives a sense of the vast
territory and the distances involved: Biloxi (Fort Maurepas), Mississippi
(1699), Cahokia, Illinois (1699), Detroit, Michigan (1701), Kaskaskia (1675/
1703), Mobile (Port Dauphin), Alabama (1711), Natchez (Fort Rosalie),
Mississippi (1716), New Orleans, Louisiana (1718), Vincennes, Indiana
(1732), Ste. Genevieve (c. 1750) and St. Louis, Missouri (1764).
From the very first contact, reports of Native dances abound in the
historical record, some with more detail than others. One of the best
known reports is from Jonathan Carver who spent time among the Sioux
(now Lakota) people among others from 1766 to 1768.
Dancing is a favourite exercise among the Indians; they never
meet on any public occasion, but this makes a part of the
entertainment. And when they are not engaged in war or
hunting, the youth of both sexes amuse themselves in this
manner every evening.
They always dance, as I have observed, at their feast. In these
as well as all their dances, every man rises in his turn, and moves about with great freedom and boldness; singing as he does so,the exploits of his ancestors. During this the company, who is
seated on the ground in a circle, around the dancer, join with him
in marking the cadence, by an odd tone, which they utter all together, and which sounds, "Heh, heh, heh." These notes, if they
might be so termed, are articulated with a harsh accent, and
strained out with the utmost force of the lungs; so that one would
imagine their strength must soon be exhausted by it; instead of
which, they repeat it with the same violence during the whole of
the entertainment.
The women, particularly those of the western nations, dance
very gracefully. They carry themselves erect, and with their arms
hanging down close to their sides, move first a few yards to the
right, and then back again to the left. This movement they perform without taking any steps as an European would do, but with
their feet conjoined, moving by turns their toes and heels. In this
manner they glide with great agility to a certain distance, and
then return: and let those who join in the dance be ever so numerous, they keep time so exactly with each other that no interruption ensues. During this, at stated periods, they mingle their shrill voices with the hoarser ones of the men who sit around (for it is
to be observed that the sexes never intermix in the same dance)
which, with the music of the drums and chichicouse [rattles], make
an agreeable harmony.
The Indians have several kinds of dance which they use on
different occasions, as the Pipe or Calumet Dance, the War Dance,
the Marriage Dance, and the Dance of the Sacrifice. The movement in every one of these are dissimilar; but it is almost impossible to convey any idea of the points in which they are unlike.
Different nations likewise vary in their manner of dancing.
The Chipeways throw themselves into a greater variety of attitudes than any other people; sometimes they hold their heads
erect, at others they bend them almost to the ground; then recline on one side, and immediately after on the other. The Naudowessies carry themselves more upright, step firmer, and move
more gracefully. But they all accompany their dances with the
disagreeable noise just mentioned.
The Pipe Dance is the principal, and the most pleasing to a
spectator of any of them, being the least frantic, and the movement of it the most graceful. It is but on particular occasions that
it is used; as when ambassadors from an enemy arrive to treat of
peace, or when strangers of eminence pass through their territories.
The War Dance, which they use both before they set out on
their war parties, and on their return from them, strikes terror
into strangers. It is performed, as the others, amidst a circle of the
warriors; a chief generally begins it, who moves from the right to
the left, singing at the same time both of his own exploits, and
those of his ancestors. When he has concluded his account of any
memorable action, he gives a violent blow with his war-club
against a post that is fixed in the ground, near the center of the
assembly for this purpose.
Every one dances in his turn, and recapitulates the wondrous
deeds of his family, till they all at last join in the dance. Then it
becomes truly alarming to any stranger that happens to be among
them, as they throw themselves into every horrible and terrifying posture that can be imagined, rehearsing at the same time the
parts they expect to act against their enemies in the field.... To
heighten the scene, they set up the same hideous yells, cries and
war-whoops they use in time of action; so that it is impossible to
consider them in any other light than as an assembly of demons.
At another time, Carver was encamped on the Mississippi, in Chippewa
country, in the area that would become Wisconsin. He was surprised by
a party of about twenty young men, "the most perfect in their shape, and
by far the handsomest of any I had ever seen... dancing as they
approached, to the music of their drums." They were painted red and
black and Carver thought the dance was a war dance and that they had
been sent by their chief who had threatened all the English in his territory.
Carver invited them into his tent where they continued their dance,
singing and periodically striking the poles of his tent. As they passed
him in their dance, each one placed his right hand over his eyes and
looked Carver directly in the face. When the dance was done and Carver
had given the men gifts, they smoked a pipe of peace and the dancers
left "in a friendly manner."
These accounts and those of others conform to narratives by earlier
French writers who described the dances of the Indians of the Lakes region. A Jesuit missionary compared Indian dancers with those of France in about 1657.
A good dancer in France does not move his arms much, and holds
his body erect, moving his feet so nimbly that, you would say, he
spurns the ground and wishes to stay in the air. The Savages, on
the contrary, bend over in their dances, thrusting out their arms
and moving them violently as if they were kneading bread, while
they strike the ground with their feet so vigorously that one
would say they are determined to make it tremble, or to bury
themselves in it up to the neck.
Jean de Lamberville, Father Marquette, wrote about dances among the
Hurons in Missilimakinac (Michilimackinac) in upper Michigan on Lake
Superior. A large number had gone off hunting and the remaining
residents asked him what dances he prohibited.
I replied in the first place that I would not permit those which God
forbids, such as indecent ones; that, as regards the others, I would
decide about them when I had seen them. Every dance has its own
name; but I did not find any harm in any of them, except that
called "the bear dance." A woman who became impatient in her
illness, in order to satisfy both her God and her imagination,
caused twenty women to be invited. They were covered with
bearskins and wore fine porcelain collars; They growled like
bears; they ate and pretended to hide like bears. Meanwhile, the
sick woman danced, and from time to time told them to throw oil
on the fire, with certain superstitious observances. The men who
acted as singers had great difficulty in carrying out the sick
woman's design, not having yet heard similar airs, for that dance
was not in vogue among the Tionnontateronnons. I availed
myself of this fact to dissuade them from the dance. I did not
forbid others which are of no importance;... I tried to induce
some Huron woman not to be present at any of those dances
[which had "indecencies and exposure of the naked person"],
which generally lasted a good part of the day; but they told me
that they had only that time in which to divert themselves, and
that, moreover, I did not forbid them to dance. The footnote to this passage, marked by the asterisk, describes the Bear dance in more detail from Lalemant's Relation of 1661-62.

</file>

<file= AmE06_F37>

Several scholarly essays have noted this conflict in U.S. human rights policy without understanding the reason: notably, the persistence of torture techniques and the prerogative of their use within the intelligence community.5
 
At the deepest level, the abuse at Abu Ghraib, Guantánamo, and Kabul are manifestations of a long history of a distinctive U.S. covert-warfare doctrine developed since World War II, in which psychological torture has emerged as a central if clandestine facet of American foreign policy. Thus, this book does not focus primarily on particular incidents, even important ones such as the events at Abu Ghraib, but instead examines these events as expressions of how American power has been brought to bear upon the world - so strong, so forceful, and so misapplied.
 
 
From 1950 to 1962, the CIA became involved in torture through a massive mind-control effort, with psychological warfare and secret research into human consciousness that reached a cost of a billion dollars annually - a veritable Manhattan Project of the mind.6 After experiments with hallucinogenic drugs, electric shock, and sensory deprivation, this work then produced a new approach to torture that was psychological, not physical, perhaps best described as "no-touch torture." The agency's discovery was a counterintuitive breakthrough -  indeed, the first real revolution in the cruel science of pain in more than three centuries. To test and then propagate its distinctive form of torture, the CIA operated covertly within its own society, penetrating and compromising key American institutions - universities, hospitals, U.S. Agency for International Development, and the armed forces. As the lead agency within the larger intelligence community, the CIA has long been able to draw upon both military and civil resources to amplify its reach and reduce its responsibility. Moreover, the agency's attempts to conceal these programs from executive and legislative review have required manipulation of its own government through clandestine techniques, notably disinformation and destruction of incriminating documents.
 
Still, if genius is the discovery of the obvious, then the CIA's perfection of psychological torture was a major scientific turning point, albeit unnoticed and unheralded in the world beyond its secret safe houses. For more than two thousand years, interrogators had found that mere physical pain, no matter how extreme, often produced heightened resistance. By contrast, the CIA's psychological paradigm fused two new methods, "sensory disorientation" and "self-inflicted pain," whose combination causes victims to feel responsible for their suffering and thus capitulate more readily to their torturers. Although seemingly benign, the term "sensory disorientation" means, in this CIA usage, something far more invasive. Through relentless probing into the essential nature of the human organism to identify its physiological and psychological vulnerabilities, the CIA's "sensory deprivation" has evolved into a total assault on all senses and sensibilities - auditory, visual, tactile, temporal, temperature, survival, sexual, and cultural. Refined through years of practice, the method relies on simple, even banal procedures - isolation, standing, heat and cold, light and dark, noise and silence - for a systematic attack on all human senses. The fusion of these two techniques, sensory disorientation and self-inflicted pain, creates a synergy of physical and psychological trauma whose sum is a hammer-blow to the fundamentals of personal identity. 
 
That notorious photo of a hooded Iraqi on a box, arms extended and wires to his hands, exposes this covert method. The hood is for sensory deprivation, and the arms are extended for self-inflicted pain. A week after the scandal broke, the U.S. prison chief in Iraq summarized this two-phase torture. "We will no longer, in any circumstances, hood any of the detainees," the general said. "We will no longer use stress positions in any of our interrogations."7
 
Although seemingly less brutal than physical methods, no-touch torture leaves deep psychological scars on both victims and interrogators. One British journalist who observed this method's use in Northern Ireland called sensory deprivation "the worst form of torture" because it "provokes more anxiety among the interrogatees than more traditional tortures, leaves no visible scars and, therefore, is harder to prove, and produces longer lasting effects."8 Victims often need extensive treatment to recover from injury far more crippling than mere physical pain.9 Perpetrators can suffer a dangerous expansion of ego, leading to escalating cruelty and lasting emotional disorders. Though any ordinary man or woman can be trained to torture, every gulag has a few masters who take to the task with sadistic flair - abhorred by their victims and valued by their superiors. Applied under the pressure of actual field operations after 1963, psychological methods soon gave way to unimaginable cruelties, physical and sexual, by individual perpetrators whose improvisations, plumbing the human capacity for brutality, are often horrifying.
 
Why, one might ask, is psychological torture so devastating, inflicting harm that is often more lasting than even the most brutal form of physical abuse? Insights from the treatment of Chilean victims tortured under General Augusto Pinochet's regime offer a point of entry into this complex question. Psychotherapist Otto Doerr-Zegers found that victims suffer "a mistrust bordering on paranoia, and a loss of interest that greatly surpasses anything observed in anxiety disorders." The subject "does not only react to torture with a tiredness of days, weeks, or months, but remains a tired human being, relatively uninterested and unable to concentrate."10 These findings led him to a revealing question: "What in torture makes possible a change of such nature that it appears similar to psychotic processes and to disorders of organic origin?"
 
The answer, Doerr-Zegers argues, lies in the psychological, not physical, "phenomenology of the torture situation": (1) an asymmetry of power; (2) the anonymity of the torturer to the victim; (3) the "double bind" of either enduring or betraying others; (4) the systematic "falsehood" of trumped-up charges, artificial lighting, cunning deceptions, and "mock executions"; (5) confinement in distinctive spaces signifying "displacement, trapping, narrowness and destruction"; and (6) a temporality "characterized by some unpredictability and much circularity, having no end." Thus, much of the pain from all forms of torture is psychological, not physical, based upon denying victims any power over their lives. In sum, the torturer strives "through insult and disqualification, by means of threats . . . to break all the victim's possible existential platforms." Through this asymmetry, the torturer eventually achieves "complete power" and reduces the victim to "a condition of total or near total defenselessness."11
 
As Doerr-Zegers describes it, the psychological component of torture becomes a kind of total theater, a constructed unreality of lies and inversion, in a plot that ends inexorably with the victim's self-betrayal and destruction. To make their artifice of false charges, fabricated news, and mock executions convincing, interrogators often become inspired thespians. The torture chamber itself thus has the theatricality of a set with special lighting, sound effects, props, and backdrop, all designed with a perverse stagecraft to evoke an aura of fear. Both stage and cell construct their own kind of temporality. While the play both expands and collapses time to carry the audience forward toward denouement, the prison distorts time to disorientate and then entrap the victim. As the torturer manipulates circumstances to "maximize confusion," the victim feels "prior schemas of the self and the world . . . shattered" and becomes receptive to the "torturer's construction of reality." Under the peculiar conditions of psychological torture, victims, isolated from others, form "emotional ties to their tormentors" that make them responsive to a perverse play in which they are both audience and actor, subject and object - in a script that often leaves them not just disoriented but emotionally and psychologically damaged, in some cases for the rest of their lives.12
 
Once the CIA completed its research into no-touch torture, application of the method was codified in the curiously named Kubark Counterintelligence Interrogation manual in 1963. The agency then set about disseminating the new practices worldwide, first through U.S. AID's Office of Public Safety to police departments in Asia and Latin America and later, after 1975, through U.S. Army Mobile Training Teams active in Central America during the 1980s. In battling communism, the United States thus adopted some of its most objectionable practices - subversion abroad, repression at home, and torture.
 
Though torture seems so simple, so banally obvious in its brutality, it does have a lineage that allows us to track distinctive methods across time and continents, through agencies and bureaucracies. Much of the abuse synonymous with the era of authoritarian rule in Asia and Latin America seems to have originated in the United States. While dictatorships in those regions would no doubt have tortured on their own, U.S. training programs provided sophisticated techniques, up-to-date equipment, and moral legitimacy for the practice, producing a clear correspondence between U.S. Cold War policy and the extreme state violence of the authoritarian age. Significantly, torture spread around the Third World with the proliferation of these training programs and then receded when America turned resolutely against the practice at the end of the Cold War. In its pursuit of torturers across the globe for the past forty years, Amnesty International has thus been, in a certain sense, following the trail of CIA programs.
 
In these same troubled decades, U.S. leadership in the global fight against torture and inhumanity has waxed and waned. After World War II, American diplomats played a central role in drafting the UN's Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the Geneva Conventions on treatment of prisoners - documents that ban torture in both principle and practice. During the Cold War, however, Washington withdrew from active support of international human rights, ignoring or rejecting several major conventions. Then, at the Cold War's close, Washington resumed its advocacy of universal principles, participating in the World Conference on Human Rights in Vienna in 1993 and, a year later, ratifying the UN Convention Against Torture.13 At the same time, CIA counterinsurgency efforts declined, and the agency carried out its comparatively limited interrogations by sending occasional targets overseas to allied agencies still notorious for torture. On the surface, therefore, the United States had, at the end of the Cold War, resolved the tension between its principles and its practices. But by failing to repudiate the CIA's propagation of torture, while adopting a UN convention that condemned its practice, the United States left this contradiction buried like a political land mine to detonate with phenomenal force, less than ten years later, in the Abu Ghraib prison scandal. Since the start of the war on terror, the intelligence community, led by the CIA, has revived the use of torture, making it Washington's weapon of choice. In effect, the development of the agency's techniques at the height of the Cold War, through a confused, even chaotic process, created a covert interrogation capacity that the White House could deploy at times of extraordinary crisis, whether in South Vietnam in 1968 or Iraq in 2003.
 
Indeed, the pervasive influence of the agency's torture paradigm can be seen in the recurrence of the same techniques used by American and allied security agencies in Vietnam during the 1960s, Central America in the 1980s, and Afghanistan and Iraq since 2001. Across the span of three continents and four decades, there is a striking similarity in U.S. torture techniques - from the CIA's original Kubark interrogation manual, to the agency's 1983 Honduras training handbook, all the way to General Ricardo Sanchez's 2003 orders for interrogation in Iraq. As we will see, these three key documents are almost identical in both conceptual design and specific techniques.
 
Yet, the American public has only a vague understanding of the scale of the CIA's massive mind-control project. Almost every adult American carries fragments of this past - LSD drug experiments, the Vietnam Phoenix program, and, of course, the Abu Ghraib photographs. But few are willing to fit these fragments together. There is a wilful blindness, a studied avoidance of this deeply troubling topic, similar to the silence that shrouds this sensitive subject in postauthoritarian societies. With the controversy over Abu Ghraib, however, incidents that once seemed isolated gain renewed significance. They form a clear mosaic of a clandestine agency manipulating its government and deceiving its citizens to propagate a new form of torture throughout the Third World.

</file>

<file= AmE06_F38>

6.The ability to display a singular personality. When one considers the greatest wines produced, it is their singular personalities that set them apart. The same can be said of the greatest vintages. The abused description "classic vintage" has become nothing more than a reference to what a viticultural region does in a typical (normal) year. Exceptional wines from exceptional vintages stand far above the norm, and they can always be defined by their singular qualities -- their aromas and their flavors and textures. The opulent, sumptuous qualities of the 1982 and 1990 red Bordeaux, the rugged tannin and immense ageability of the 1986 red Bordeaux, the seamless, perfectly balanced 1994 Napa and Sonoma Cabernet Sauvignons and proprietary blends, and the plush, sweet fruit, high alcohol, and glycerin of the 1990 Barolos and Barbarescos, are all examples of vintage individuality. 
7.The ability to reflect the place of origin. An Asian proverb seems particularly applicable when discussing the ballyhooed French concept of terroir: "Knowing in part may make a fine tale, but wisdom comes from seeing the whole." And so it is with this concept of terroir, that hazy, intellectually appealing notion that a plot of soil plays the determining factor in a wine's character. The French are more obsessed with the issue of terroir than anyone else in the world. And why not? Many of that country's most renowned vineyards are part of an elaborate hierarchy of quality based on their soil and exposition. And the French would have everyone believe that no one on planet Earth can equal the quality of their Pinot Noir, Chardonnay, Cabernet, Syrah, etc. because their privileged terroir is unequaled. One of France's most celebrated wine regions, Burgundy, is often cited as the best place to search for the fullest expression of terroir. Advocates of terroir (the terroirists) argue that a particular piece of ground contributes a character that is distinctive and apart from that same product grown on different soils and slopes. Burgundy, with its classifications of grand cru and premier cru vineyards, village vineyards, and generic viticultural areas, is the terroirists' "raison d'être." Of course, they claim they can taste a wine's terroir only if they have not seen the label. 
Lamentably, terroir has become such a politically correct buzzword that in some circles it is an egregious error not to utter some profound comments about finding "a sense of somewhereness" when tasting a Vosne-Romanée-Les Malconsorts or a Latricières-Chambertin. Leading terroirists make a persuasive and often eloquent case about the necessity of finding, as one observer puts it, "the true voice of the land" in order for a wine to be legitimized. 
Yet like so many things about wine, especially tasting it, there is no scientific basis for anything the terroirists propose. What they argue is what most Burgundians and owners of France's finest vineyards give lip service to -- that for a wine to be authentic and noble it must speak of its terroir. 
On the other side of this issue are the "realists," or should I call them modernists. They suggest that terroir is merely one of many factors that influence a wine's style, quality, and character. Soil, exposition, and microclimate (terroir) most certainly impart an influence, but so do the following: 
Rootstock -- Is it designed to produce prolific or small crop levels? 
Yeasts -- Does the winemaker use the vineyard's wild yeasts or are commercial yeasts employed? Every yeast, wild or commercial, will give a wine a different set of aromatics, flavor, and texture. 
Yields and Vine Age -- High yields result in diluted wine. Low yields, usually less than two tons per acre or 35-40 hectoliters per hectare, result in wines with much more concentration and personality. Additionally, young vines have a tendency to overproduce, whereas old vines produce small berries and less wine. Crop thinning is often employed with younger vineyards to increase the level of concentration. 
Harvest Philosophy -- Is the fruit picked underripe (with greener, cooler red fruit flavors) to preserve more acidity, or fully ripe (with darker fruit flavors and lower acids) to emphasize the lushness and opulence of a given varietal? 
Vinification Techniques and Equipment -- There are an amazing number of techniques that can change the wine's aromas and flavors. Moreover, equipment choice (different presses, destemmers, etc.) can have a profound influence on the final wine. 
Elevage (or the wine's upbringing) -- Is the wine brought up in oak barrels, concrete vats, stainless-steel vats, or large oak vats (which the French call foudres)? What is the percentage of new oak? Of these elements, only oak exerts an influence on the wine's character. Additionally, transferring wine (racking) from one container to another has an immense impact on a wine's bouquet and flavor. Is the wine allowed to remain in long contact with its lees (believed to give the wine more aromatic complexity and fullness)? Or is it racked frequently for fear of picking up an undesirable lees smell? 
Fining and Filtration -- Even the most concentrated and profound wines that terroirists consider quintessential examples of the soil can be eviscerated and stripped of their personality and richness by excessive fining and filtering. Does the winemaker treat the wine with kid gloves, or is the winemaker a manufacturer/processor bent on sculpturing the wine? 
Bottling Date -- Does the winemaker bottle early to preserve as much fruit as possible, or does he bottle later to give the wine a more mellow, aged character? Undoubtedly, the philosophy of when to bottle can radically alter the character of a wine. 
Cellar Temperature and Sanitary Conditions -- Some wine cellars are cold and others are warm. Different wines emerge from cold cellars (development is slower and the wines are less prone to oxidation) than from warm cellars (the maturation of aromas and flavors is more rapid and the wines are quicker to oxidize). Additionally, are the wine cellars clean or dirty? 
These are just a handful of factors that can have extraordinary impact on the style, quality, and personality of a wine. As the modernists claim, the choices that man himself makes, even when they are unquestionably in pursuit of the highest quality, can contribute far more to a wine's character than the vineyard's terroir. 
If you are wondering where I stand on terroir, I do believe it is an important component in the production of fine wine. However, I would argue that the most persuasive examples of terroir do not arise from Burgundy, but rather, from white wine varietals planted in Alsace and Germany. If one is going to argue terroir, the wine has to be made from exceptionally low yields; fermented with only the wild yeasts that inhabit the vineyard; brought up in a neutral medium, such as old barrels, cement tanks, or stainless steel; given minimal cellar treatment; and bottled with little or no fining or filtration. 
Terroir, as used by many of its proponents, is often a convenient excuse for upholding the status quo. If one accepts the fact that terroir is everything and is essential to legitimize a wine, how should consumers evaluate the wines from Burgundy's most famous grand cru vineyard, Chambertin? This 32-acre vineyard boasts 23 different proprietors. But only a handful of them appear committed to producing an extraordinary wine. Everyone agrees this is a hallowed piece of ground, but I can think of only a few producers -- Domaine Leroy, Domaine Ponsot, Domaine Rousseau, Domaine des Chézeaux (Ponsot made the wine for Chézeaux) -- that produce wines that merit the stratospheric reputation of this vineyard. Yet the Chambertins of three of these producers, Leroy, Ponsot, and Rousseau, are completely different in style. The Ponsot wine was the most elegant, supple, and round; Leroy's is the most tannic, backward, concentrated, and meaty; and Rousseau's is the darkest- colored, most dominated by new oak, and most modern in style, taste, and texture. As for the other 18 or 20 producers (and I am not even thinking about the various négociant offerings), what Burgundy wine enthusiasts are likely to encounter on retailers' shelves ranges from mediocre to appallingly thin and insipid. What wine, may I ask, speaks for the soil of Chambertin? Is it the wine of Leroy, the wine of Ponsot, the wine of Rousseau? 
Arguments such as this can be made with virtually any significant Burgundy vineyard. Consider Corton-Charlemagne and four of its most celebrated producers. The firm of Faiveley owns the most prized parcel atop this famous hill, and they make a compellingly elegant Corton-Charlemagne. Stylistically, it is the antithesis of the super-concentrated, lavishly oaky, broadly flavored, alcoholic Corton-Charlemagne made by Louis Latour. Again, Domaine Leroy makes a backward, hard, tough Corton-Charlemagne that resembles a tannic red more than a white wine. Domaine Coche-Dury makes a wine with extraordinary mineral components, as well as remarkable richness, unctuosity, and opulence where the oak takes a back seat to the wine's fruit and texture. Which of these Corton-Charlemagnes has that notion of "somewhereness" that is raised by the terroirists to validate the quality of a vineyard? 
Are terroirists kindergarten intellectuals who should be doing more tasting and less talking? Of course not. But they can be accused of naïvely swallowing the tallest tale in winedom. On the other hand, the realists should recognize that no matter how intense and concentrated a wine can be from a modest vineyard in Givry, it will never have the sheer complexity and class of a Vosne-Romanée grand cru from a conscientious producer. 
In conclusion, it is fundamental that no great wine can be made from mediocre terroir, and any top wine must, to some degree, reflect its place of origin. Yet wine enthusiasts need to think of terroir as you do salt, pepper, and garlic. In many dishes they can represent an invaluable component, imparting wonderful aromas and flavors. But if consumed alone, they are usually difficult to swallow. Moreover, all the hyperventilation over terroir obscures the most important issue of all -- identifying and discovering those producers who make wines worth drinking and savoring! 

8. The passion and commitment of the producers. Think it over -- the artist who produces a wine has one chance every 12 months. First is the 11 months of work leading up to the vintage. And then there is the most important decision made in the course of the year -- the date to harvest, which, once made, cannot be undone. The fruit can be too ripe or not ripe enough, so getting it perfect is their goal, but perfection is no easy accomplishment, particularly given the vagaries of Mother Nature. These producers work virtually every day of the year, either in the vineyard or in the winery. They are the custodians for the new wine in the cellar. They are groundskeepers responsible for manicuring, pruning, and taking care of the vineyard's health, its crop size, and its overall balance. These producers have to be quick learners. A chef can have a bad day in the kitchen and 24 hours later be back on his or her brilliant and creative game. A wine producer puts in 11 months of labor, but over the course of a 10-20 day harvest, only gets that one chance to prove his or her worth. 
These producers, to a man and woman, all have an enviable passion, intensity, and commitment to hard work. They refuse to compromise, and they recognize their responsibilities as the custodians of special pieces of property. Their sole purpose is to deliver to the consumer the most natural, uncompromised, unmanipulated expression of their vineyard, vintage, and varietal that is humanly possible. For the most part, the vast majority of the men and women behind great wines are humble servants of Mother Nature. 
Most of the producers in this book are, I am sure, capable of pursuing more lucrative careers in other fields of work, but they are wedded to the concept that wine is not a business but a culture that ties together man, nature, and land. It embodies civilization at its finest, and is capable of bringing together diverse people to share the joy of a beverage that has been an important component of every major civilization in the Western world.

</file>

<file= AmE06_F39>

Two days after I won the Democratic nomination in my U.S. senate race, I received an email from a doctor at the University of Chicago Medical School. 
"Congratulations on your overwhelming and inspiring primary win," the doctor wrote. "I was happy to vote for you, and I will tell you that I am seriously considering voting for you in the general election. I write to express my concerns that may, in the end, prevent me from supporting you." 
The doctor described himself as a Christian who understood his commitments to be comprehensive and "totalizing." His faith led him to strongly oppose abortion and gay marriage, but he said his faith also led him to question the idolatry of the free market and the quick resort to militarism that seemed to characterize much of President Bush's foreign policy. 
The reason the doctor was considering voting for my opponent was not my position on abortion as such. Rather, he had read an entry that my campaign had posted on my website, suggesting that I would fight "right-wing ideologues who want to take away a woman's right to choose." He went on to write: "Whatever your convictions, if you truly believe that those who oppose abortion are all ideologues driven by perverse desires to inflict suffering on women, then you, in my judgment, are not fair-minded. ... I do not ask at this point that you oppose abortion, only that you speak about this issue in fair-minded words." 
I checked my website and found the offending words. They were not my own; my staff had posted them to summarize my pro-choice position during the Democratic primary, at a time when some of my opponents were questioning my commitment to protect Roe v. Wade. Within the bubble of Democratic Party politics, this was standard boilerplate, designed to fire up the base. The notion of engaging the other side on the issue was pointless, the argument went; any ambiguity on the issue implied weakness. 
Rereading the doctor's letter, though, I felt a pang of shame. Yes, I thought, there were those in the antiabortion movement for whom I had no sympathy, those who jostled or blocked women who were entering clinics; those who bullied and intimidated and occasionally resorted to violence. But those antiabortion protesters weren't the ones who occasionally appeared at my campaign rallies. The ones I encountered usually showed up in the smaller communities that we visited, their expressions weary but determined as they stood in silent vigil outside whatever building in which the rally was taking place, their handmade signs or banners held before them like shields. They didn't yell or try to disrupt our events, although they still made my staff jumpy. The first time a group of protesters showed up, my advance team went on red alert; five minutes before my arrival at the meeting hall, they called the car I was in and suggested that I slip in through the rear entrance to avoid a confrontation. 
"I don't want to go through the back," I told the staffer driving me. "Tell them we're coming through the front." We turned into the library parking lot and saw seven or eight protesters gathered along a fence: several older women and what looked to be a family - a man and woman with two young children. I got out of the car, walked up to the group, and introduced myself. The man shook my hand hesitantly and told me his name. He looked to be about my age, in jeans, a plaid shirt, and a St. Louis Cardinals cap. His wife shook my hand as well, but the older women kept their distance. The children, maybe 9 or 10 years old, stared at me with undisguised curiosity. 
"You folks want to come inside?" I asked. 
"No, thank you," the man said. He handed me a pamphlet. "Mr. Obama, I want you to know that I agree with a lot of what you have to say." "I appreciate that." 
"And I know you're a Christian, with a family of your own." 
"That's true." 
"So how can you support murdering babies?" 
I told him I understood his position but had to disagree with it. I explained my belief that few women made the decision to terminate a pregnancy casually; that any pregnant woman felt the full force of the moral issues involved and wrestled with her conscience when making that decision; that I feared a ban on abortion would force women to seek unsafe abortions, as they had once done in this country. I suggested that perhaps we could agree on ways to reduce the number of women who felt the need to have abortions in the first place. 
The man listened politely and then pointed to statistics on the pamphlet listing the number of unborn children that, according to him, were sacrificed every year. After a few minutes, I said I had to go inside to greet my supporters and asked again if the group wanted to come in. Again the man declined. As I turned to go, his wife called out to me. 
"I will pray for you," she said. "I pray that you have a change of heart." 
Neither my mind nor my heart changed that day, nor did they in the days to come. But I did have that family in mind as I wrote back to the doctor and thanked him for his email. The next day, I had the language on my website changed to state in clear but simple terms my pro-choice position. And that night, before I went to bed, I said a prayer of my own - that I might extend the same presumption of good faith to others that the doctor had extended to me. p> It is a truism that we Americans are a religious people. According to the most recent surveys, 95% of Americans believe in God, more than two-thirds belong to a church, 37% call themselves committed Christians, and substantially more people believe in angels than believe in evolution. Nor is religion confined to places of worship. Books proclaiming the end of days sell millions of copies, Christian music fills the Billboard charts, and new megachurches seem to spring up daily, providing everything from day care to singles mixers to yoga and Pilates classes. Our President routinely remarks on how Christ changed his heart, and football players point to the heavens after every touchdown, as if God were calling plays from the celestial sidelines. 
Today, white evangelical Christians (along with conservative Catholics) are the heart and soul of the Republican Party's grassroots base - a core following continually mobilized by a network of pulpits and media outlets that technology has only amplified. It is their issues - abortion, gay marriage, prayer in schools, intelligent design, Terri Schiavo, the posting of the Ten Commandments in the courthouse, home schooling, voucher plans, and the makeup of the Supreme Court - that often dominate the headlines and serve as one of the major fault lines in American politics. The single biggest gap in party affiliation among white Americans is not between men and women, or between those who reside in so-called red states and those who reside in blue states, but between those who attend church regularly and those who don't. Democrats, meanwhile, are scrambling to "get religion," even as a core segment of our constituency remains stubbornly secular in orientation, and fears - rightly, no doubt - that the agenda of an assertively Christian nation may not make room for them or their life choices. 
There are various explanations for this trend, from the skill of evangelicals in marketing religion to the charisma of their leaders. But their success also points to a hunger for the product they are selling, a hunger that goes beyond any particular issue or cause. Each day, it seems, thousands of Americans are going about their daily rounds - dropping off the kids at school, driving to the office, flying to a business meeting, shopping at the mall, trying to stay on their diets - and coming to the realization that something is missing. They are deciding that their work, their possessions, their diversions, their sheer busyness are not enough. They want a sense of purpose, a narrative arc to their lives, something that will relieve a chronic loneliness or lift them above the exhausting, relentless toll of daily life. They need an assurance that somebody out there cares about them, is listening to them - that they are not just destined to travel down a long highway toward nothingness. 
If I have any insight into this movement toward a deepening religious commitment, perhaps it's because it's a road I have traveled. 

I was not raised in a religious household. My maternal grandparents, who hailed from Kansas, had been steeped in Baptist and Methodist teachings as children, but religious faith never really took root in their hearts. My mother's own experiences as a bookish, sensitive child growing up in small towns in Kansas, Oklahoma and Texas only reinforced this inherited skepticism. Her memories of the Christians who populated her youth were not fond ones. Occasionally, for my benefit, she would recall the sanctimonious preachers who would dismiss three-quarters of the world's people as ignorant heathens doomed to spend the afterlife in eternal damnation - and who in the same breath would insist that the earth and the heavens had been created in seven days, all geologic and astrophysical evidence to the contrary. She remembered the respectable church ladies who were always so quick to shun those unable to meet their standards of propriety, even as they desperately concealed their own dirty little secrets; the church fathers who uttered racial epithets and chiseled their workers out of any nickel that they could. 
For my mother, organized religion too often dressed up closed-mindedness in the garb of piety, cruelty and oppression in the cloak of righteousness. 
This isn't to say that she provided me with no religious instruction. In her mind, a working knowledge of the world's great religions was a necessary part of any well-rounded education. In our household the Bible, the Koran, and the Bhagavad Gita sat on the shelf alongside books of Greek and Norse and African mythology. On Easter or Christmas Day my mother might drag me to church, just as she dragged me to the Buddhist temple, the Chinese New Year celebration, the Shinto shrine, and ancient Hawaiian burial sites. But I was made to understand that such religious samplings required no sustained commitment on my part - no introspective exertion or self-flagellation. Religion was an expression of human culture, she would explain, not its wellspring, just one of the many ways - and not necessarily the best way - that man attempted to control the unknowable and understand the deeper truths about our lives. In sum, my mother viewed religion through the eyes of the anthropologist that she would become; it was a phenomenon to be treated with a suitable respect, but with a suitable detachment as well. Moreover, as a child I rarely came in contact with those who might offer a substantially different view of faith. My father was almost entirely absent from my childhood, having been divorced from my mother when I was 2 years old; in any event, although my father had been raised a Muslim, by the time he met my mother he was a confirmed atheist, thinking religion to be so much superstition. 
And yet for all her professed secularism, my mother was in many ways the most spiritually awakened person that I've ever known. She had an unswerving instinct for kindness, charity, and love, and spent much of her life acting on that instinct, sometimes to her detriment. Without the help of religious texts or outside authorities, she worked mightily to instill in me the values that many Americans learn in Sunday school: honesty, empathy, discipline, delayed gratification, and hard work. She raged at poverty and injustice. 
Most of all, she possessed an abiding sense of wonder, a reverence for life and its precious, transitory nature that could properly be described as devotional.

</file>

<file= AmE06_F40>

The nights were the best, really, when the ice on the ramp leading up to the Washington Nationals' offices was slick and black, undetectable in the darkness. That's when the wind picked up across the parking lot at Robert F. Kennedy Memorial Stadium, when the unmarked black van might race over the asphalt, charging toward an innocent employee. "Jesus, this is it," the employee would think. "Someone's coming after me." But invariably it would turn out to be a security guard, a friendly woman protecting the employees, smiling and asking, "Is everything okay?" Going outside on those nights was at one's peril, but considering the facilities - Oh, who's kidding whom? They weren't really facilities. They were good old-fashioned Porta Potties. So, considering the Porta Potties were a good fifty yards across the parking lot, there was no alternative but to trudge out into the cold, wave to the security guard, find the plastic door, hold your breath, and step in. 
David Cope headed out one night in December 2004, stared into the blackness, and turned back around. Cope had been hired a month earlier as the Nationals' vice president of sales and marketing. He was a lifelong Washingtonian, a sports business professional who had worked for nearly every franchise in Baltimore and Washington, from the king of them all, football's Redskins, to baseball's Baltimore Orioles, basketball's Washington Wizards, and football's Baltimore Ravens. He drove his bosses crazy from time to time when he would think back on that experience. "When we started the Ravens, we.. ." and he would launch into a tale about relocating the NFL team from Cleveland. But he had never been through something like this. Staring out into the night, Cope couldn't see a thing. He went back into his office, throwing open the door that, in a stiff breeze, might blow open on its own anyway. A flashlight. He needed a flashlight. The absurdity of it all didn't hit Cope then, just as it didn't hit the Nationals' other employees during those sixteen-hour days, when their jobs were simply to build the front office of a baseball team out of. .. well, out of nothing. The venue for such a project: a pair of double-wide trailers that sat inconspicuously in the low-lying parking lot outside RFK. The offices inside the stadium wouldn't be completed for four more months, and if the employees thought too much about the circumstances, all the work that had to be done between those frigid nights and Washington's first baseball game in thirty-four years, they might have cried. So when Cope returned to the metal trailer that held his office, it was a practical matter. The staff tried not to drink too much coffee, too much soda, too much water, too much anything, because lots of liquid meant more trips to the savagely frigid bathroom. Cope had no choice. Grab the flashlight, then head back out. When he arrived at the Porta Potti, the next challenge: where to put the flashlight? He looked around. Finding nothing, he stuck it in his mouth, unzipped his pants, and went about his business. An illuminating experience. "What the hell am I doing?" he muttered, the impediment muffling any actual words.
"The whole thing," he said, "was crazy."
The fact that Washington had a baseball team, the fact that Major League Baseball had decided, finally, to move the Montreal Expos to the nation's capital, was a thought that warmed the souls of lifelong Washingtonians during the fall and winter of 2004, in large part because they were oblivious to those icy treks to the outhouse, to the wind hurling open the trailer doors, to the pizza that arrived night after night from that place down East Capitol Street. .. that is, until the orders stopped, because no one could remember ordering a roach as an extra topping. For outsiders, for Washington's baseball fans, a drive past RFK Stadium, just twenty-two blocks east of the U.S. Capitol, might bring back memories of when the Washington Senators played there, back in the 1960s and '70s. But inform anyone who drove past Parking Lot 4 that basically the entire franchise was being run out of those two double-wides at the bottom of the hill, and that was another story.
"You have to wonder," Cope said, "how it all happened."
Before the trailers, before the Porta Potties and the pizzas, it started at the Hilton Washington, which is rarely referred to as such. It is, rather, the Hinckley Hilton, because it is here that, on March 30, 1981, John Hinckley, Jr., the son of a wealthy Colorado oil executive, emerged from a crowd of journalists outside the hotel, brandishing a .22 caliber pistol. There, too, was President Ronald Reagan, just his seventieth day in office. Hinckley fired six shots. The fifth pierced Reagan's lung. Police tackled Hinckley, Secret Service agents whisked the President away in his limousine, press secretary James Brady was shot in the head and ended up in a wheelchair. Reagan recovered, and the Hilton Washington, perched on the east side of Connecticut Avenue Northwest as the street rises from Dupont Circle, became a landmark.
Yet on a clear October day, nearly a quarter of a century later, the Hinckley Hilton served as a workaday Washington hotel. In the function rooms below the lobby bar, they staged a USO gala. Around the corner, smiling women with dark hair handed out name tags for the meeting of the National Italian American Foundation. And on the eighth floor, in a suite that didn't look or feel like home, Tony Tavares's cellphone rang. .. just as it had been doing for days. It rang again, beeping out an electronic version of "O Canada." He was, indeed, a stranger in a new land. Tavares picked up his phone, growled a few words, and hung up. As soon as he put down the cell, the phone in his suite let loose its more traditional ring.
"Tony Tavares," he said in his clipped, East Coast, this-better-be-important-or-else tone. And he listened. Just for a minute. "Okay," Tavares said, but it was rushed, abrupt. "Uhkay. If you want a job with me, e-mail me at.. ." and he provided his e-mail address. "I can't guarantee anything, uhkay? Just e-mail me.. .. Yeah. Right. Bye."
Tavares put the phone down and looked through some papers. He had been in Washington less than forty-eight hours. All he had was a suitcase. He was, in theory, the president of a major league baseball team, but what evidence of a baseball team was there here? Kevin Uhlich, dressed like Tavares in a dark suit, was also employed by the Washington Expos, or whatever the soon-to-be-renamed Washington baseball club would be called. He and Tavares had worked together with the Anaheim Angels, Tavares as president, Uhlich rising from bat boy as a kid to CFO as an adult. When Major League Baseball moved the Expos to Washington, the Expos' executive vice president for business affairs, Claude Delorme, had to remain back at Montreal's Olympic Stadium to tend to a twenty-six-page black binder, Delorme's ad hoc document that provided him with a guide that might have been entitled "How to Shut Down a Major League Baseball Team." The baseball operation, the people who dealt with real-life pitchers and catchers, remained at Olympic Stadium, too. There was no point in moving those people to Washington. Tavares needed help on the business side. He called Uhlich.
"Do you want to do this?" Tavares said.
Uhlich had lived his whole life in California, had a family in California, was attached to California, was California.
"Yes," he said anyway.
So they hit the ground in Washington, a city about which neither knew anything. Tavares had been there, oh, must have been twenty years ago now. He'd returned once in August, when it looked more and more likely that the Expos would move to the District of Columbia and not to northern Virginia, Norfolk, Las Vegas, or Portland, Oregon. He and Delorme took a cab out to RFK Stadium to get an idea of what they might be getting themselves into should the Expos take up residence there.
"Claude," Tavares said at the time, "I just want to warn you: The neighborhood around there, it's, uh, not the best."
That, Tavares thought to himself, was being gentle. He remembered something worse. He remembered a war zone. So when the cab drove east down Independence Avenue, past the Starbucks on the corner of Pennsylvania Avenue and Third Street S.E., past historic Eastern Market, where residents shopped and ate, and past the row houses that were selling for $500,000, $800,000, even upward of $1 million, Tavares knew the town he would bring the Expos to was different from the town he'd visited all those years ago.
This, he thought, will work.
But how? When a new administration takes over a team, the game plan is relatively clear. But here, there was no infrastructure, no one with prior knowledge of how things work, of whom to call in the community. Where in the world do you start? Tickets. Tickets would be a good place to start. So on their first day in town, Tavares and Uhlich met at the Hinckley Hilton with reps from Ticketmaster and Tickets.com. And they needed a place for their employees to work, so they searched for office space in downtown Washington. They ended up with two nondescript rooms at Foley & Lardner, a law firm used by Major League Baseball with offices in Georgetown, on K Street, in the heart of Washington's power center. And, in a move that sounded like a joke, they arranged for those trailers to be installed in the parking lot at RFK Stadium, the kind that contractors use on large projects, because the stadium itself, which hadn't hosted baseball in thirty-four years and had been abandoned by the Redskins in 1996, was undergoing $18 million in renovations. Had the front office of a baseball franchise ever been run out of trailers? This one would be. 
Technically, baseball was back in Washington. But baseball, at this point, consisted of two men jumping into cabs, jetting off to their next unknown destination, confused by everything, even the cab fare system. "How come," Tavares once bellowed, "it's $12 when I took a cab to RFK one day, and the next day, the guy tries to charge me $25?" At night, they returned to the Hinckley Hilton and headed up to the eighth floor, where for the time being, they lived in adjoining rooms. 
"It's not much of an operation," Tavares said. "It's a couple of people running around like chickens with their heads cut off."
The chickens went about hiring some sort of a staff. David Cope was at his home in the tony Washington suburb of Bethesda, Maryland, on a Saturday morning in the fall when his cellphone rang. Up popped a 714 area code. Cope's forty-year-old mind, which tends to race, went to work immediately. He is, as he said, "sick with numbers." He knew 714 is a southern California exchange. But it was just after 6 a.m. out there. This call wasn't coming from the West Coast. It was coming from Kevin Uhlich, and he wasn't in California at all. He was in Washington, D.C.
Cope had read about Tavares and Uhlich in the newspapers, and he knew they were starting things up, knew they faced an enormous task ahead in converting the Expos from Montreal's team to Washington's team. Tavares and Uhlich needed bodies. Cope knew the market. He knew the process. And, perhaps his most attractive characteristic, he was available.
Of the entire Expos' front office staff, the only person who came south across the border to continue to work for the franchise in Washington was John Dever, the director of baseball information, the man responsible for assembling stats and notes for the media, for setting up interviews with manager Frank Robinson and the players, for handling the day-to-day information on injuries and hitting streaks and the like.

</file>

<file= AmE06_F41>

When he wrote his pathbreaking book on the U.S. Senate in 1960, Donald Matthews examined the norms prevalent in the institution; high among them was "institutional patriotism." Senators were intensely loyal to the Senate as an institution; they identified first as senators rather than as partisans or through their ideology, and they were fiercely protective of their prerogatives vis-à-vis the president or the House of Representatives. The rules and procedures of the Senate were a key to its unique role as the world's greatest deliberative body; and even those who were frustrated by them and by their application, especially when an intense minority thwarted the will of the majority, were respectful of their centrality to the Senate itself. 
Norms are not laws. Many individual senators in the 1950s and 1960s, such as Paul Douglas and Wayne Morse, took on the institution, thumbing their noses at what they saw as outdated concepts that upheld an unacceptable status quo. Their successors in the body included such liberals as Jim Abourezk and Howard Metzenbaum and conservatives James Allen and Jesse Helms. But it was obvious to us from the moment we each entered the Senate's environs in 1969 that these kinds of senators were the exception, not the rule. Most senators wore their pride in being in the Senate on their sleeves. Nothing short of a challenge to the primacy and integrity of the body itself could unite them across all conceivable lines. 
Moreover, most House members had a heavy dose of institutional patriotism, often accompanied by a contempt, borne in part by jealousy, for the Senate as the so-called upper body. House members and leaders took immense pride in their status as the people's chamber, the first of our constitutional institutions mentioned in Article 1 of the Constitution, and in their legislative craftsmanship and expertise. 
Senators, in their view, were dilettantes, even if many of their House colleagues yearned to make the move to the other side of the Capitol - only one senator in modern times, Claude Pepper of Florida, had made the reverse move, and that not out of choice but driven by his Senate defeat. When an average member of the House was elected to the Senate, the typical line used by his former colleagues was that the move had increased the IQ in both chambers. 
During the 1970s and 1980s, we participated regularly in orientations for newly elected members of Congress, put on by our two institutions and the Congressional Research Service of the Library of Congress as well as the Harvard University Institute of Politics. Successive classes of freshmen would come in and prepare to take office; their incredible pride at joining the House or Senate, being part of history as an exclusive and small group of people ever to have served, was palpable. During much of that era, Rep. Bill Frenzel (R-Minn.), a first-rate lawmaker and member of the House Ways and Means Committee, would join with his wife, Ruthie, to address the new members and their spouses. He would urge them to move their families to Washington; he believed their time in the House would be the greatest experience of their lives and was something they should share with their families. 
By the early 1990s, that appeal fell increasingly on deaf ears. Many members shrank from the idea of moving families to Washington, and not only because the anti-Washington political climate of the period made it politically unattractive. Our conversations with the new members revealed a different mindset. Many viewed Washington as an insidious place and were fearful that the more time they spent there, the greater the likelihood that they would catch the virus that caused Potomac Fever. The pride that members of both houses had in their institutions gave way to a skepticism. New and returning members increasingly saw their service in Congress not as a great and joyful time of their lives but as an unpleasant duty, like taking castor oil or serving in the trenches in France in World War I - something to endure, not savor, for the greater good of achieving a policy revolution in the country or winning the tribal war against the enemy in the other party. A number had run on a pledge of limiting their own terms to avoid the fever and to convey their distaste for Washington and congressional careerism. 
The reaction of new members has been matched by the growing indifference of committee and party leaders to the history and independent role of their own institutions and by a widespread acceptance by congressional leaders that the ends justify the means. 
One small but meaningful example of this is the House Historian. The historian's office was created in 1983 and was ably filled by historian Ray Smock until January 1995, when he was fired by incoming Speaker Newt Gingrich. Gingrich then moved to appoint Christina Jeffrey, a political scientist from Kennesaw State College in Georgia. Jeffrey lasted a few days - when controversial comments she had made several years earlier caused enough of an outcry that Gingrich fired her. He did not replace her, and the post of House Historian stood vacant for a full decade, with neither Gingrich nor his successor, Speaker Dennis Hastert, interested enough to fill the job or energize the office. Finally, in 2005, Hastert appointed the veteran historian and author Robert Remini from his home state of Illinois to fill the position. But the decade-long indifference to the importance of the history of the House underscored the decline in institutional identity in the House. 
Indifference to Reform 
There were other signs as well. Our experiences in and around Congress have been wrapped up in a variety of reform movements - attempts by members and leaders to improve committee systems, ethics processes, campaigns and elections, congressional support agencies, congressional-executive relations, and so on. From our first efforts, in the late 1960s, through our involvement with the joint committee on congressional reform in the early 1990s, it was clear that many rank-and-file members, senior lawmakers, and party leaders understood the need for periodic reform and tried to convince their colleagues that the upheaval that would result from institutional reform was worth the cost. They often failed, but they regularly tried. 
In the past ten years, after a real sense in the first year of the Gingrich-led Republican Congress that they would clear the decks and implement sweeping change in the way Congress did business, there has been a complete expunging of any sense of need or desire for congressional reform - and worse. The modest movement in 1995, led by David Dreier, to implement the committee-system reforms recommended by the joint committee, was largely quashed by entrenched committee interests. That was the end of any effort to examine the committee system, reorganize jurisdictions, or streamline bloated assignments - such as a House Appropriations Committee with sixty-six members, an Armed Services Committee with sixty-two, or, most egregious, a Transportation and Infrastructure Committee with, count 'em, seventy-five members. 
In neither house of Congress has there been anything like the efforts of the Bolling and Stevenson committees in the 1970s, the Quayle committee in the 1980s, and the joint committee exercise in the 1990s. The current leaders have expressed zero interest in reform - which means no interest in institutional well-being, maintenance, or renewal. Where there has been action, it has either been defensive or negative. In the defensive category, consider the reaction of the Speaker and the Senate Majority Leader to the new Department of Homeland Security (DHS). At first, neither leader suggested any reorganization within the House or Senate. After months of criticism, the Speaker moved to create a select committee on homeland security - one with a credible chair, Chris Cox of California, but with no substantive jurisdiction and stacked with the powerful chairs of committees, such as Judiciary and Transportation, whose only role on the committee was to protect their own turf from encroachment by the new panel. The Senate did nothing. Grudgingly, the House and then the Senate finally created subcommittees on homeland security to coordinate appropriations for the behemoth.

Belatedly, after the heralded 9/11 Commission recommended much more serious changes in the committee system, the two leaders acted - limply and inadequately. The House committee was made permanent, but with severe limits on its jurisdiction and the continuing presence of turf-conscious chairs from competing panels. The Senate renamed its Government Affairs Committee the Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee and gave overall authorization jurisdiction over DHS to the panel - but left jurisdiction over key areas, such as the Coast Guard, in other committees, consigning the HSGA committee at best to secondary status. Also responding to the 9/11 Commission, Congress in late 2004 changed the intelligence structure within the executive branch and created a new overall director of intelligence. At the same time, both houses addressed their own inadequacies in oversight of intelligence - but barely, falling far short of the constructive recommendations of the 9/11 Commission. 
Disappearance of Oversight 
In October 2005, John Dingell of Michigan reached the fifty-year mark for service in the House. We have known Dingell since we came to Washington - and suffered his wrath in the early 1990s when we proposed taking sizable chunks of jurisdiction away from his Energy and Commerce Committee. But we also watched Dingell operate through seven presidents, Democrats and Republicans, mostly as chairman of the committee, often as chair of its vaunted Oversight and Investigations subcommittee. There were times when we winced as he grilled bureaucrats mercilessly and excessively. But what we saw consistently was a man of the House who viewed his role, regardless of the occupant of the White House, as overseeing the executive branch and making sure that the laws were faithfully executed without bias or malfeasance. He made Democratic and Republican presidents alike uncomfortable, but the result was better execution of policy in a host of areas. 
John Dingell is a unique figure on Capitol Hill. But during the 1980s and into the 1990s, he was not alone. Serious oversight was done by the Appropriations Committees in both houses and by a number of authorizing committees. When the Republicans took control of Congress, there was substantial aggressive oversight - for the period when Bill Clinton was president, that is - although the oversight of policy was accompanied by a near-obsession with investigation of scandal and allegations of scandal. But when George Bush became president, oversight largely disappeared. From homeland security to the conduct of the war in Iraq, from the torture issue uncovered by the Abu Ghraib revelations to the performance of the IRS, Congress has mostly ignored its responsibilities. The exceptions - for example, the bipartisan efforts in several areas by House Government Reform Committee Chair Tom Davis with his ranking member Henry Waxman - glaringly prove the rule. 
Consider homeland security. To any student of organizational behavior, governmental or otherwise, and especially to students of mergers and reorganizations, it comes as no shock that, since its inception, the Department of Homeland Security has been beset by a series of management problems, a lack of consistent focus, and a failure to sort out its numerous responsibilities. This was evident long before the scathing White House report on the institutional failures surrounding Hurricane Katrina. 
The department has had a near-revolving door in its top management team, major problems integrating agencies, and less-than-stellar success creating an integrated and functional information management system for the department, much less coordinating its computers with others in such places as the FBI. 
The failures in oversight here are particularly crushing. No one other than Congress can ride herd over a massive new department like DHS, prodding the nascent conglomeration to make sure that when mad cow disease looms or self-initiated "Minutemen" patrol the border that the Animal and Plant Inspection Service and the Immigration and Naturalization Service, both now part of the new department and charged with their new priority of homeland security, can concurrently handle the responsibilities in the old areas for which they still have the burden.

</file>

<file= AmE06_F42>

To be a woman in America at the close of the 20th century - what good fortune. That's what we keep hearing, anyway. The barricades have fallen, politicians assure us. Women have "made it," Madison Avenue cheers. Women's fight for equality has "largely been won," Time magazine announces. Enroll at any university, join any law firm, apply for credit at any bank. Women have so many opportunities now, corporate leaders say, that we don't really need equal opportunity policies. Women are so equal now, lawmakers say, that we no longer need an Equal Rights Amendment. Women have "so much," former President Ronald Reagan says, that the White House no longer needs to appoint them to higher office. Even American Express ads are saluting a woman's freedom to charge it. At last, women have received their full citizenship papers. 
And yet . . . 
Behind this celebration of the American woman's victory, behind the news, cheerfully and endlessly repeated, that the struggle for women's rights is won, another message flashes. You may be free and equal now, it says to women, but you have never been more miserable. 
This bulletin of despair is posted everywhere - at the newsstand, on the TV set, at the movies, in advertisements and doctors' offices and academic journals. Professional women are suffering "burnout" and succumbing to an "infertility epidemic." Single women are grieving from a "man shortage." The New York Times reports: Childless women are "depressed and confused" and their ranks are swelling. Newsweek says: Unwed women are "hysterical" and crumbling under a "profound crisis of confidence." The health advice manuals inform: High-powered career women are stricken with unprecedented outbreaks of "stress-induced disorders," hair loss, bad nerves, alcoholism, and even heart attacks. The psychology books advise: Independent women's loneliness represents "a major mental health problem today." Even founding feminist Betty Friedan has been spreading the word: she warns that women now suffer from a new identity crisis and "new 'problems that have no name.'" 
How can American women be in so much trouble at the same time that they are supposed to be so blessed? If the status of women has never been higher, why is their emotional state so low? If women got what they asked for, what could possibly be the matter now? 
The prevailing wisdom of the past decade has supported one, and only one, answer to this riddle: it must be all that equality that's causing all that pain. Women are unhappy precisely because they are free. Women are enslaved by their own liberation. They have grabbed at the gold ring of independence, only to miss the one ring that really matters. They have gained control of their fertility, only to destroy it. They have pursued their own professional dreams - and lost out on the greatest female adventure. The women's movement, as we are told time and again, has proved women's own worst enemy. 
"In dispensing its spoils, women's liberation has given my generation high incomes, our own cigarette, the option of single parenthood, rape crisis centers, personal lines of credit, free love, and female gynecologists," Mona Charen, a young law student, writes in the National Review, in an article titled "The Feminist Mistake." "In return it has effectively robbed us of one thing upon which the happiness of most women rests - men." The National Review is a conservative publication, but such charges against the women's movement are not confined to its pages. "Our generation was the human sacrifice" to the women's movement, Los Angeles Times feature writer Elizabeth Mehren contends in a Time cover story. Baby-boom women like her, she says, have been duped by feminism: "We believed the rhetoric." In Newsweek, writer Kay Ebeling dubs feminism "The Great Experiment That Failed" and asserts "women in my generation, its perpetrators, are the casualties." Even the beauty magazines are saying it: Harper's Bazaar accuses the women's movement of having "lost us [women] ground instead of gaining it." 
In the last decade, publications from the New York Times to Vanity Fair to the Nation have issued a steady stream of indictments against the women's movement, with such headlines as when feminism failed or the awful truth about women's lib. They hold the campaign for women's equality responsible for nearly every woe besetting women, from mental depression to meager savings accounts, from teenage suicides to eating disorders to bad complexions. The "Today" show says women's liberation is to blame for bag ladies. A guest columnist in the Baltimore Sun even proposes that feminists produced the rise in slasher movies. By making the "violence" of abortion more acceptable, the author reasons, women's rights activists made it all right to show graphic murders on screen. 
At the same time, other outlets of popular culture have been forging the same connection: in Hollywood films, of which Fatal Attraction is only the most famous, emancipated women with condominiums of their own slink wild-eyed between bare walls, paying for their liberty with an empty bed, a barren womb. "My biological clock is ticking so loud it keeps me awake at night," Sally Field cries in the film Surrender, as, in an all too common transformation in the cinema of the '80s, an actress who once played scrappy working heroines is now showcased groveling for a groom. In prime-time television shows, from "thirtysomething" to "Family Man," single, professional, and feminist women are humiliated, turned into harpies, or hit by nervous breakdowns; the wise ones recant their independent ways by the closing sequence. In popular novels, from Gail Parent's A Sign of the Eighties to Stephen King's Misery, unwed women shrink to sniveling spinsters or inflate to fire-breathing she-devils; renouncing all aspirations but marriage, they beg for wedding bands from strangers or swing sledgehammers at reluctant bachelors. We "blew it by waiting," a typically remorseful careerist sobs in Freda Bright's Singular Women; she and her sister professionals are "condemned to be childless forever." Even Erica Jong's high-flying independent heroine literally crashes by the end of the decade, as the author supplants Fear of Flying's saucy Isadora Wing, a symbol of female sexual emancipation in the '70s, with an embittered careerist-turned-recovering-"co-dependent" in Any Woman's Blues - a book that is intended, as the narrator bluntly states, "to demonstrate what a dead end the so-called sexual revolution had become, and how desperate so-called free women were in the last few years of our decadent epoch." 
Popular psychology manuals peddle the same diagnosis for contemporary female distress. "Feminism, having promised her a stronger sense of her own identity, has given her little more than an identity crisis," the best-selling advice manual Being a Woman asserts. The authors of the era's self-help classic Smart Women/Foolish Choices proclaim that women's distress was "an unfortunate consequence of feminism," because "it created a myth among women that the apex of self-realization could be achieved only through autonomy, independence, and career." 
In the Reagan and Bush years, government officials have needed no prompting to endorse this thesis. Reagan spokeswoman Faith Whittlesey declared feminism a "straitjacket" for women, in the White House's only policy speech on the status of the American female population - entitled "Radical Feminism in Retreat." Law enforcement officers and judges, too, have pointed a damning finger at feminism, claiming that they can chart a path from rising female independence to rising female pathology. As a California sheriff explained it to the press, "Women are enjoying a lot more freedom now, and as a result, they are committing more crimes." The U.S. Attorney General's Commission on Pornography even proposed that women's professional advancement might be responsible for rising rape rates. With more women in college and at work now, the commission members reasoned in their report, women just have more opportunities to be raped. 
Some academics have signed on to the consensus, too - and they are the "experts" who have enjoyed the highest profiles on the media circuit. On network news and talk shows, they have advised millions of women that feminism has condemned them to "a lesser life." Legal scholars have railed against "the equality trap." Sociologists have claimed that "feminist-inspired" legislative reforms have stripped women of special "protections." Economists have argued that well-paid working women have created "a less stable American family." And demographers, with greatest fanfare, have legitimated the prevailing wisdom with so-called neutral data on sex ratios and fertility trends; they say they actually have the numbers to prove that equality doesn't mix with marriage and motherhood. 
Finally, some "liberated" women themselves have joined the lamentations. In confessional accounts, works that invariably receive a hearty greeting from the publishing industry, "recovering Superwomen" tell all. In The Cost of Loving: Women and the New Fear of Intimacy, Megan Marshall, a Harvard-pedigreed writer, asserts that the feminist "Myth of Independence" has turned her generation into unloved and unhappy fast-trackers, "dehumanized" by careers and "uncertain of their gender identity." Other diaries of mad Superwomen charge that "the hard-core feminist viewpoint," as one of them puts it, has relegated educated executive achievers to solitary nights of frozen dinners and closet drinking. The triumph of equality, they report, has merely given women hives, stomach cramps, eye-twitching disorders, even comas. 
But what "equality" are all these authorities talking about? 
If American women are so equal, why do they represent two-thirds of all poor adults? Why are nearly 75 percent of full-time working women making less than $20,000 a year, nearly double the male rate? Why are they still far more likely than men to live in poor housing and receive no health insurance, and twice as likely to draw no pension? Why does the average working woman's salary still lag as far behind the average man's as it did twenty years ago? Why does the average female college graduate today earn less than a man with no more than a high school diploma just as she did in the '50s) - and why does the average female high school graduate today earn less than a male high school dropout? Why do American women, in fact, face one of the worstgender-based pay gap in the developed world? 
If women have "made it," then why are nearly 80 percent of working women still stuck in traditional "female" jobs - as secretaries, administrative "support" workers and salesclerks? And, conversely, why are they less than 8 percent of all federal and state judges, less than 6 percent of all law partners, and less than one half of 1 percent of top corporate managers? Why are there only three female state governors, two female U.S. senators, and two Fortune 500 chief executives? Why are only nineteen of the four thousand corporate officers and directors women - and why do more than half the boards of Fortune companies still lack even one female member? 
If women "have it all," then why don't they have the most basic requirements to achieve equality in the work force? Unlike virtually all other industrialized nations, the U.S. government still has no family-leave and child care programs - and more than 99 percent of American private employers don't offer child care either. Though business leaders say they are aware of and deplore sex discrimination, corporate America has yet to make an honest effort toward eradicating it. In a 1990 national poll of chief executives at Fortune 1000 companies, more than 80 percent acknowledged that discrimination impedes female employees' progress - yet, less than 1 percent of these same companies regarded remedying sex discrimination as a goal that their personnel departments should pursue. In fact, when the companies' human resource officers were asked to rate their department's priorities, women's advancement ranked last. 
If women are so "free," why are their reproductive freedoms in greater jeopardy today than a decade earlier? Why do women who want to postpone childbearing now have fewer options than ten years ago? The availability of different forms of contraception has declined, research for new birth control has virtually halted, new laws restricting abortion - or even information about abortion - for young and poor women have been passed, and the U.S. Supreme Court has shown little ardor in defending the right it granted in 1973.

</file>

<file= AmE06_F43>

Dopey Dictators
1. Saddam Hussein (recently retired - Iraq) - A man who tugged on the tail of the sleeping lion one too many times, and got bit; photographed in his underwear for good measure.
2. Fidel Castro (Cuba) - "The revenues of Cuban state-run companies are used exclusively for the benefit of the people, to whom they belong."
3. Muammar al-Qaddafi (Libya) - Punishes entire towns for "collective guilt." Wears fashionable sunglasses.
4. Mobutu (Zaire) - Wore leopard-skin pillbox hat.
5. L. Ron Hubbard - Forced the masses to read "Dianetics"; ultimately led to Tom Cruise bunny-hopping on Oprah's couch. 
When it comes to his drafting strategy, all accepted rules of engagement are out the window. The Bitter Drafter derives more satisfaction out of wrecking other people's teams than building his own. Like Kim Jong Il, he uses his irrationality to keep his enemies off-balance, all of which leads to him vulturing players of strategic importance to other teams earlier than he should. 
Even if the Bitter Drafter hasn't drafted a starting running back yet, that won't stop him from nabbing perennial backups Maurice Morris or Najeh Davenport. The Bitter Drafter aims to spite. His team is finished before the season even begins. But he's hurt your team, too, and in the sick mind of the Bitter Drafter, that's a sufficient reason to act. 
The Ex-College Football Player 
The Ex-College Football Player enters a draft with a great deal of respect. He greets guys with his deep baritone voice, rubs his tightly shorn scalp, and smiles that winning smile, save for the chipped right bicuspid. 
He circles the War Room in a Nordstrom's suit that's just a bit too tight across the shoulders and a shirt collar that's excessively starched. The crispness of his outfit will come into play late in the draft as his stress builds, and his neck-veins bulge. 
If you have an Ex-College Football Player in your league, you know the drill. He was a backup linebacker at Penn State who used to ball with Lavar Arrington. Or he was the long-snapper at Princeton who used to ball the Governor's daughter. 
In either case, the dude has skills. 
The Ex-College Football Player starts the draft with a string of visionary picks. In the third round, he takes an emerging wide receiver, and says, "My boy James played with this cat in D-II - he says he runs tight routes." Murmurs break out in the draft room. The rest of the Bush League frets over his insider knowledge. 
Ultimately, however, he is a sheep in wolf's clothing - dangerous looking but toothless. The Ex-College Football Player evaluates players based on their real skills, as opposed to their far more important fantasy potential. And that's a problem. 
The first danger sign is when he adds Cory Schlesinger to his running back stable because "he's a great lead blocker and will be rewarded for his effort with goal line carries." Then he nabs a backup flanker on the Chiefs because he thinks that "his footwork is sharp and Coach Vermeil will need to get him involved in the passing game." 
Then he takes Andre Davis because he "likes the work ethic of Virginia Tech players." 
Phrases Used By The Ex-College Football Player
1. "I like his burstability."
2. "That guy can do twenty benches at two-twenty-five without sweating."
3. "His hands are the softest of any tight end I've seen in the last ten years."
4. "He elevated his stock at the Combine."
5. "My old position coach loves his can-do attitude." 
At this point, the Ex-College Football Player's knowledge, once a key strength, becomes a weakness. Much like the Empire's fearsome "Scout Walkers (AT-ST)" were felled by the Ewoks' primitive ropes and boulders in the forests of Endor, the Ex-College Football Player now starts lurching forward, mired in his own analysis. By the eighth round, he collapses in a heap amid a group of fantasy football Ewoks, a third his size, dancing around and chanting "Yubb, yubb!" 
This is how it ends for the Ex-College Football Player. Not with a bang, but with a trip, a stumble, a thud, and a whimper. The starched shirt is now tight around his neck. His once promising team is now in trouble. 
But he remains a good sport. He smiles across the table at the geeky half-pints in his league - guys that he could snap like Joe Theismann's fibula - who snicker, snicker again, and then crack one joke after another at the big man's expense. 
The Two-Headed Hydra
Every so often you encounter a dual-manager team. The rationale for this pairing is twofold. First, these guys are inherently cheap, and are looking for a way to split the league entry fee. Second, they're under the misguided impression that two heads are better than one. But just as a two-headed hydra spends more time snapping at itself than grabbing extra food, so, too, is this partnership destined for trouble. 
The reason it won't work is an absence of leadership. Consider the great military generals throughout history. Did Napoleon have an aide de camp he relied upon when rolling across Europe? Did Eisenhower have a peer issuing commands on the beaches of Normandy? Did George W. Bush have a silent partner calling the shots in the march to war in Iraq? 
Okay, don't answer that last one. But you get the point. Great leaders make tough decisions unilaterally. And they alone must live with the results. 
By way of contrast, the Two-Headed Hydra believes in consensus-driven management. They've coordinated their first few picks, and may even exchange an audible high-five when "their guy" falls to them at the end of the second round. But even then, fissures start to show. 
Hydra #1: Booyah! Dante Culpepper fell to us.
Hydra #2: Solid scouting, partner.
Hydra #1: Booyah! 
Hydra #2: Dude, stop yelling "Booyah!" You're hurting my ears. 
And so it begins. They're already snapping at each other. Now it's just a matter of time before they disagree on a pick, start debating useless stats, and their system breaks down completely. 
If they're calling into the draft, you might hear muffled phone conversations, the ruffling of papers, one insisting that they "stick with the system," and the other arguing that they "follow their gut." 
This wasn't the plan. They took a tight end early, and missed out on a slew of running backs. Now they can't agree on anything. When a fellow drafter says, "Hustle up, you're on the clock," they tell him to take it easy. They stall. They hem. They haw. 
And then, when everyone tells them to pick - that they have to pick, now -they settle on the dreaded "middle option." So in the sixth round, they take Keyshawn Johnson, a player neither of them could possibly want, which will only lead to more Hydra-snapping for the rest of the draft. 
The Guy Who Loves Rookies
There's something odd about the Guy Who Loves Rookies. Coaches don't like rookies. Teammates don't like rookies. Rookies often don't even like rookies. So what does that say about the manager who only drafts young punks for his fantasy football team? 
We point to the Tao of Dazed and Confused for a potential answer. In this film, Matthew McConaughy's character wistfully says, "That's what I love about these high school girls, man. I get older, they stay the same age." 
The Guy Who Loves Rookies is obsessed with youth - infatuated with nubile prodigy to near perversion. Rookies offer promise, upside, and excitement. 
"I love fresh meat," he announces to no one in particular. He then reinforces his declaration by stating, "Give me young legs, give me young knees." 
His obsession for young talent began during his undergrad years. Hours logged watching ESPN's "College Game Day" planted the seed. Kirk Herbstreit shimmered on camera, Lee Corso donned the local college hat and foam finger, and our man got all misty-eyed. 
Back then, the hot college player du jour was running through Rutger's turnstile defensive line, and Keith Jackson let fly with a half-dozen "Woah Nellies!" Finally, this rookie was cemented in his mind when, at the NFL Draft, Mel Kiper Jr. uttered some nonsense about how he "grades out" to be the greatest at his position in the last decade. Or, possibly, ever. 
Then John Clayton rolled his eyes. Chris Berman gave him a nickname, and the player slow-limped up to the stage in some ill-fitting, six-piece suit equipped with a dangling timepiece. Perhaps he even had a top hat or cane. And just like that, the manager was locked in - that's his guy. He fell in love right there with the rookie's pimpiness. 
It's true that the Guy Who Loves Rookies can put together a decent team every three or four years. And yes, few things are more exciting than rolling the dice on a highly touted rookie and coming up with double-sixes. Taking Edgerrin James in 1999 and seeing him run roughshod over the NFL, silver teeth gleaming after one of his seventeen TDs, was better than winning big in Vegas, better than a lap dance at Scores, better, even, than taking a savvy veteran who'd posted equally gaudy numbers the year before. 
A Rookie Might Pan Out If ...
1. He isn't a quarterback. Peyton Manning, Michael Vick, and Donovan McNabb all had miserable rookie campaigns. 
2. He is a running back. Over the last seven years, at least one rookie has finished in the top ten among running backs for fantasy scoring. (That being said, according to ESPN, running backs drafted in the NFL's first round over the last ten years have averaged a measly 654 rushing yards and four touches.)
3. He isn't taken in the first five rounds. Chances are, fresh meat fetishists will overvalue young players to the point of leaving better options on the table.
But for every Edge, there are six Ron Daynes. For every Randy Moss, there are a half-dozen Charles Rogers. These guys will cripple most fantasy teams. That doesn't stop the Guy Who Loves Rookies from taking them, though. The thrill of the hunt is too strong, the scent of fresh meat too intoxicating, and the allure of the next big thing too overwhelming. 
So he assembles his team full of promise, pep, and optimism. His squad is exciting - on paper, at least. But it will crumble by Week Two when Coach Shanahan decides that his rookie running back can't block. Or Eli Manning coughs up three picks during his first start. 
And that is that. 
The Death Maiden
Susan B. Anthony, she of the useless one dollar coin and champion of women's suffrage, once said, "...It is a downright mockery to talk to women of their enjoyment of the blessings of liberty while they are denied the use of the only means of securing them provided by this Democratic-Republican government - the ballot." 
We're not sure what any of that really means, or what liberty has to do with fantasy football. But perhaps it speaks to the need, nay right, of women to participate equally with men in any activity. To prohibit women from doing so would mock the very freedoms that soldiers have given their lives to defend. 
Yesteryear's ballot box is today's fantasy football league. 
Or something like that. 
The emergence of women in fantasy football, however, will never be smooth. The seeds of hostility between the sexes actually predate the advent of fantasy football. It started, we surmise, in the realm of Dungeons & Dragons - when men were boys, boys were dorks, and girls found them irritating. 
This phenomenon was captured perfectly in the following scene from Wet Hot American Summer: 
Caped Boy: Excuse me, ladies. You may remember me as the guy who came to dinner a few weeks ago with underwear on my head ... And as you may have heard, I am recently a crowned class B dungeon-master.

</file>

<file= AmE06_F44>

The CPU communicates with memory and I/O devices by placing a numeric
value on the address bus to select one of the memory locations or I/O
device port locations, each of which has a unique binary numeric address.
Then the CPU, I/O, and memory devices pass data among themselves by
placing the data on the data bus. The control bus contains signals that
determine the direction of the data transfer (to or from memory, and to
or from an I/O device).
3.3.1 Registers
The register set is the most prominent feature within the CPU. Almost all
calculations on the 80x86 CPU involve at least one register. For example, to
add the value of two variables and store their sum into a third variable, you
must load one of the variables into a register, add the second operand to
the register, and then store the register's value into the destination variable.
Registers are middlemen in almost every calculation. Therefore, registers are
very important in 80x86 assembly language programs.
The 80x86 CPU registers can be broken down into four categories:
general-purpose registers, special-purpose application-accessible registers,
segment registers, and special-purpose kernel-mode registers. We will not
consider the last two sets of registers, because the segment registers are not
used very much in modern 32-bit operating systems (e.g., Windows, BSD,
BeOS, and Linux), and the special-purpose kernel-mode registers are
intended for writing operating systems, debuggers, and other system-level
tools. Such software construction is well beyond the scope of this text.
3.3.2 80x86 General-Purpose Registers
The 80x86 (Intel family) CPUs provide several general-purpose registers for
application use. These include eight 32-bit registers that have the following
names:
EAX, EBX, ECX, EDX, ESI, EDI, EBP, and ESP
The E prefix on each name stands for extended. This prefix differentiates
the 32-bit registers from the eight 16-bit registers that have the following
names:
AX, BX, CX, DX, SI, DI, BP, and SP
Finally, the 80x86 CPUs provide eight 8-bit registers that have the
following names:
AL, AH, BL, BH, CL, CH, DL, and DH
The most important thing to note about the general-purpose registers is
that they are not independent. That is, the 80x86 does not provide 24 separate
registers. Instead, it overlaps the 32-bit registers with the 16-bit registers, and
it overlaps the 16-bit registers with the 8-bit registers. Figure 3-2 shows this
relationship.

The fact that modifying one register may modify as many as three other
registers cannot be overemphasized. For example, modifying the EAX register
may also modify the AL, AH, and AX registers. You will often see compilergenerated
code using this feature of the 80x86. For example, a compiler may clear (set to zero) all the bits in the EAX register and then load AL with a
one or zero in order to produce a 32-bit True (1) or False (0) value. Some
machine instructions manipulate only the AL register, yet the program may
need to return those instructions' results in EAX. By taking advantage of the
register overlap, the compiler-generated code can use an instruction that
manipulates AL to return that value in all of EAX.
Although Intel calls these registers general purpose, you should not infer
that you can use any register for any purpose. The SP/ESP register pair for
example, has a very special purpose that effectively prevents you from using it
for any other purpose (it's the stack pointer). Likewise, the BP/EBP register
has a special purpose that limits its usefulness as a general-purpose register.
All the 80x86 registers have their own special purposes that limit their use in
certain contexts; we will consider these special uses as we discuss the machine
instructions that use them (see the online resources).
3.3.3 The 80x86 EFLAGS Register
The 32-bit EFLAGS register encapsulates numerous single-bit Boolean
(True/False) values (or flags). Most of these bits are either reserved for kernel
mode (operating system) functions or are of little interest to application
programmers. Eight of these bits are of interest to application programmers
reading (or writing) assembly language code: the overflow, direction, interrupt
disable,1 sign, zero, auxiliary carry, parity, and carry flags. Figure 3-3 shows
their layout within the low-order (LO) 16 bits of the EFLAGS register.

Of the eight flags that application programmers can use, four flags in particular
are extremely valuable: the overflow, carry, sign, and zero flags. We call
these four flags the condition codes. Each flag has a state - set or cleared - that
you can use to test the result of previous computations. For example, after
comparing two values, the condition-code flags will tell you if one value is less
than, equal to, or greater than a second value.

3.4 Literal Constants
Most assemblers support literal numeric, character, and string constants.
Unfortunately, just about every assembler out there uses a different syntax
for literal constants. The following subsections describe the syntax for the
assemblers we'll be using in this book.
3.4.1 Binary Literal Constants
All assemblers provide the ability to specify base-2 (binary) literal constants.
Few compilers emit binary constants, so you probably won't see these values
in the output a compiler produces, but you may see them in handwritten
assembly code.
3.4.1.1 Binary Literal Constants in HLA
Binary literal constants in HLA begin with the special percent character (%)
followed by one or more binary digits (0 or 1). Underscore characters may
appear between any two digits in a binary number. By convention, HLA
programmers separate each group of four digits with an underscore. For
example:
%1011
%1010_1111
%0011_1111_0001_1001
%1011001010010101

3.4.1.2 Binary Literal Constants in Gas
Binary literal constants in Gas begin with the special 0b prefix followed by
one or more binary digits (0 or 1). For example:
0b1011
0b10101111
0b0011111100011001
0b1011001010010101
3.4.1.3 Binary Literal Constants in MASM and TASM
Binary literal constants in MASM/TASM consist of one or more binary digits
(0 or 1) followed by the special b suffix. For example:

1011b
10101111b
0011111100011001b
1011001010010101b
3.4.2 Decimal Literal Constants
Decimal constants in most assemblers take the standard form - a sequence of
one or more decimal digits without any special prefix or suffix. This is one of
the two common numeric formats that compilers emit, so you will often see
decimal literal constants when reading compiler output.
3.4.2.1 Decimal Literal Constants in HLA
HLA allows you to optionally insert underscores between any two digits in a
decimal number. HLA programmers generally use underscores to separate
groups of three digits in a decimal number. For example, take the following
numbers:
123
1209345
In HLA a programmer could insert underscores as shown here:
1_024
1_021_567
3.4.2.2 Decimal Literal Constants in Gas, MASM, and TASM
Gas, MASM, and TASM use a string of decimal digits (the standard "computer"
format for decimal values). For example:
123
1209345
MASM, TASM, and Gas (unlike HLA) do not allow embedded underscores
in decimal literal constants.
3.4.3 Hexadecimal Literal Constants
Hexadecimal (base-16) literal constants are the other common numeric
format you'll find in assembly language programs (especially those that
compilers emit).
3.4.3.1 Hexadecimal Literal Constants in HLA
Hexadecimal literal constants in HLA consist of a string of hexadecimal
digits (0..9, a..f, or A..F) with a $ prefix. Underscores may optionally appear
between any two hexadecimal digits in the number. By convention, HLA
programmers separate sequences of four digits with underscores.
For example:
$1AB0
$1234_ABCD
$dead
3.4.3.2 Hexadecimal Literal Constants in Gas
Hexadecimal literal constants in Gas consist of a string of hexadecimal digits
(0..9, a..f, or A..F) with a 0x prefix. For example:
0x1AB0
0x1234ABCD
0xdead
3.4.3.3 Hexadecimal Literal Constants in MASM and TASM
Hexadecimal literal constants in MASM/TASM consist of a string of hexadecimal
digits (0..9, a..f, or A..F) with an h suffix. The values must begin with
a decimal digit (0 if the constant would normally begin with a digit in the
range a..f). For example:
1AB0h
1234ABCDh
0deadh
3.4.4 Character and String Literal Constants
Character and string data are also common data types that you'll find in
assembly programs. MASM and TASM do not differentiate between literal
character or string constants. HLA and Gas, however, use a different internal
representation for characters and strings, so the distinction between the two
literal constant forms is very important in those assemblers.
3.4.4.1 Character and String Literal Constants in HLA
Literal character constants in HLA take a couple of different forms. The
most common form is a single printable character surrounded by a pair
of apostrophes, such as 'A'. To specify an apostrophe as a literal character
constant, HLA requires that you surround a pair of apostrophes by apostrophes
(''''). Finally, you may also specify a character constant using
the # symbol followed by a binary, decimal, or hexadecimal numeric
value that specifies the ASCII code of the character you want to use.
For example:
'a'
''''
' '
#$d
#10
#%0000_1000
String literal constants in HLA consist of a sequence of zero or more
characters surrounded by quotes. If a quote must appear within a string
constant, the string constant will contain two adjacent quotes to represent a
quote character within the string.

For example:
"Hello World"
"" -- The empty string
"He said ""Hello"" to them"
"""" -- string containing one quote character
3.4.4.2 Character and String Literal Constants in Gas
Character literal constants in Gas consist of an apostrophe followed by a single
character. For example:
'a
''
'!
String literal constants in Gas consist of a sequence of zero or more
characters surrounded by quotes. String literal constants in Gas use the
same syntax as C strings. You use the \ escape sequence to embed special
characters in a Gas string. For example:
"Hello World"
"" -- The empty string
"He said \"Hello\" to them"
"\"" -- string containing one quote character
3.4.4.3 Character/String Literal Constants in MASM and TASM
Character and string literal constants in MASM/TASM take the same form:
a sequence of one or more characters surrounded by either apostrophes or
quotes. These assemblers do not differentiate character constants and string
constants. For example:
'a'
"'" - An apostrophe character
'"' - A quote character
"Hello World"
"" -- The empty string
'He said "Hello" to them'
3.4.5 Floating-Point Literal Constants
Floating-point literal constants in assembly language typically take the same
form you'll find in HLLs (a sequence of digits, possibly containing a decimal
point, optionally followed by a signed exponent). For example:
3.14159
2.71e+2
1.0e-5
5e2

3.5 Manifest (Symbolic) Constants in Assembly Language
Almost every assembler provides a mechanism for declaring symbolic (named)
constants. In fact, most assemblers provide several ways to associate a value
with an identifier in the source file.
3.5.1 Manifest Constants in HLA
The HLA assembler, true to its name, uses a high-level syntax for declaring
named constants in the source file. You may define constants in one of three
ways: in a const section, in a val section, or with the ? compile-time operator.
The const and val sections appear in the declaration section of an HLA
program and their syntax is very similar. The difference between them is that
you may reassign values to identifiers you define in the val section and you
may not reassign values to identifiers appearing in a const section. Although
HLA supports a wide range of options in these declaration sections, the basic
declaration takes the following form:
const
someIdentifier := someValue;
Wherever someIdentifier appears in the source file (after this
declaration), HLA will substitute the value someValue in the identifier's
place. For example:
const
aCharConst := 'a';
anIntConst := 12345;
aStrConst := "String Const";
aFltConst := 3.12365e-2;
val
anotherCharConst := 'A';
aSignedConst := -1;

In HLA, the ? statement allows you to embed val declarations anywhere
whitespace is allowed in the source file. This is sometimes useful because it
isn't always convenient to declare constants in a declaration section. For
example:
?aValConst := 0;
3.5.2 Manifest Constants in Gas
Gas uses the .equ statement to define a symbolic constant in the source file.
This statement has the following syntax:
.equ symbolName, value
80x86 Assembly for the HL L P rogrammer 31
Here are some examples of "equates" within a Gas source file:

</file>

<file= AmE06_F45>

Adding a laptop program will greatly increase the complexity of managing your network. It will probably require adding technical staff, and it will definitely add to the workload of your technology department. Planning for these logistical challenges is crucial to the long-term success of your program.
The following are some basic computer network issues to consider when planning for 1-to-1.
Firewall
By now, most schools are using some sort of firewall to block ports and secure their network from unauthorized access or use. However, 1-to-1 will put added strain on your entire network, so it's best to review your current firewall to be sure it's up to the task.
For instance, if you don't want students to be able to use instant messaging during the school day, have you blocked all of the ports associated with IM? IM can "jump ports," so you may need to consider multiple measures, such as a firewall appliance, software solutions, or locking down workstations. Some of the most popular firewall appliances used by schools include Packeteer, Barracuda, and SonicWall. All of these products have their pros and cons, and they may or may not be compatible with your network architecture, so do your homework and choose carefully. As always, your most valuable asset will be a well-informed network manager who keeps up with security trends and emerging threats.
Do you have, or plan to have, Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) running on your network? If so, be aware that a variety of new threats are specific to this technology, and your firewall needs to be robust enough to handle them. Be sure that the company you choose to install your VoIP products will provide you with specific security advice and protection so that outside IP-specific attacks cannot get through.
Virus Protection
Do you run an anti-virus program automatically on all of your computers? How are program and virus definition updates managed? While it's fairly easy to administer a virus protection program for all school-based workstations, it's more difficult to make sure student laptops that log on and off the network at odd times during the day are similarly protected and updated. At Peck, we have our anti-virus software set to automatically update during the day, and generally this doesn't intrude on schoolwork 
The timing and management of anti-virus updates are important issues to consider. You'll need to determine what level of inconvenience users are willing to tolerate. You may be forced to make some tough decisions here, balancing the need to limit disruptions and downtime with the need to protect your data and network resources.
Other Network Security Issues
How have you balanced the security needs of your network with the needs of your students and faculty to use their computers as fully as possible? If, for example, you want to control students' ability to install programs on their laptops and stop certain system functions, can students still go home and use their laptops with their home Internet connections? If you're giving students 24/7 access but drastically limiting their ability to research through the Internet and download files, are you crippling the laptops' usefulness?
There are certainly different schools of thought on this. Several of the schools interviewed for this book "lock down" their student laptops, preventing students from changing any configurations or adding software. At The Peck School, we originally went this route, too, but we found it too cumbersome and limiting, especially since we wanted to encourage students to use their laptops at home. While we do risk students making problematic changes to their computers, it's a fairly simple matter to reimage the computers as needed and start all over.
Are security configurations regularly checked to make sure they're set and working the way you want them to? Many security products default to a security level that's either too high or too low. Tweaking these levels to respond to user needs and complaints will often be necessary, and this should be done several times a year.
Do you run a remote desktop product to check on network activity and computer use? We do this at Peck, and it's been quite useful as a monitoring tool. For instance, when students are working in groups, teachers will use the remote desktop utility to check their students' screens to be sure they haven't wandered away from the subject at hand. Other schools use ARD (Apple Remote Desktop) and similar products to both monitor appropriate use and check on student progress on assignments and projects. This unobtrusive approach to offering formative feedback and advice precisely when it's needed works especially well with adolescents, who often want to save face and not ask for help in front of their peers.
E-mail
Do you have an SMTP gateway that scans your e-mail for viruses and spam? Have you set it up to filter both incoming and outgoing mail? We typically think of security threats coming from the outside, but if any of your laptop users has "caught" a worm or Trojan horse, he or she may unknowingly be sending out viruses or worms to others.
Does your Internet Service Provider (ISP) offer any anti-spam or anti-virus protection? This seems to be a growing trend and can provide another layer of security. At The Peck School, we have two levels of security: a Symantec SMTP gateway and Trend Micro's security products running on our ISP's T1 connection.
Is your e-mail set up to allow downloading and uploading of attachments? Provided your other security components are in place, this is usually safe and is an excellent way to get around defective floppy disks and CD-ROMs that aren't readable. Students can simply attach files to e-mails and send them to themselves or their teachers, going back and forth from home as needed. You may have to establish size limits on attached files and also block the uploading of certain types of files, particularly executables. There will be a fine balance required here, however: too many limits will make it difficult for users to get their work done efficiently.
Internet Proxy Servers and Filters
Do you use a proxy server? Your laptops will most likely connect to the school network through a proxy server. You'll probably need settings for both home and school. At Peck, we've set up Home and School Internet connections on our iBooks. Macintosh's Safari is smart enough to know the difference and provide the proxy settings at school and not use those settings at home when Home is checked. Our network manager and technical support specialist make sure the settings are created and then adjusted over the summer so that the laptops will work seamlessly once the students get them in the fall.
Do you filter your Internet access? This is a federal requirement, so most districts do. How often is your filter updated? Do you also log everyone's Internet use? At Peck, we use Symantec's Enterprise solution, which includes an SMTP gateway for all e-mail traffic and Web content filtering. Since we're a K - 8 school, we believe our students need this kind of protection. I've also used Websense to filter Internet content. Both products are easy to configure and update and allow users to prevent or allow specific Web addresses as needed. This means that if a teacher wants to use a particular Web site that for some reason is filtered out by one of our categories, we can add that site to our "safe" list. Many similar filtering products are available on the market.
Passwords and Privacy Issues
How are you keeping your data secure internally? This means making sure no one can see anyone else's files. Password protection and user grouping are two ways to protect data. At Peck, we assign teachers and administrators to groups and then allow those groups to get "rights" to certain files on the network. Users can see their own personal files, but they can only see other people's files when they've been given permission to do so.
How often are passwords changed? Do you allow short or long passwords? Can people reuse old passwords? Are letter and number combination passwords required? At Peck, passwords for e-mail, the network, and Internet access are all in effect. Since we're multiplatform (our laptops are Macintosh, while most of our servers are Windows), we haven't implemented, and prefer not to use, a one-password approach. This means users have to remember and input multiple passwords.
Some schools and districts have used LDAP (Lightweight Directory Access Protocol) to simplify access to all servers, but Peck hasn't done this and has no LDAP-accessible applications. With an LDAP solution, users logging onto your network need just one password, instead of several, to gain access to all services. When applications are LDAP-compatible, they share the password. It's like having a master key for all the doors in the building. Without this solution, students and teachers must input separate passwords for different resources: a password for the network, a password for the Internet, a password for e-mail, and so on.
Have you addressed FERPA (Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act) with regard to your network and electronic data? Check out the following site to learn the FERPA guidelines you need to consider: www.ed.gov/policy/gen/guid/fpco/ferpa/index.html. In general, FERPA guidelines require schools to make sure that only teachers and administrators who need to access student data can do so. Student records are password-protected and locked away from inadvertent viewing. You may have to check the access rights of your network groups to make sure they are in compliance with FERPA.
Network Storage
How much storage space per user is allowed on the network? If you allow too much, you may find the temptation to save inappropriate files too great for some.
Our approach at The Peck School is to start everyone off with 100 megabytes and add more storage based on requests. When teachers and students are working on videos, we have in the past given them more. Lately, however, we've decided it makes more sense to have users save video files to their own hard drives and then burn them to DVD or compress them with QuickTime and save on a CD. It's an issue we continue to grapple with, and most likely we'll have to go to larger storage options in the future. iMovies have really taken off as an educational vehicle, and that means you'll need more storage for these big files.
File Backup
Is everything on your network backed up regularly? While you don't need a daily backup of every single file, you do need your entire network backed up on a regular schedule. If applications and databases aren't regularly backed up, a reinstall in the event of a server crash will mean a reconfiguration of all of them. This will require you to restore all program updates and possibly many months of records and changes (if these records and changes are even recoverable).
Have you tested your restore lately? Even if you back up regularly, you need to test the restore of these files to make sure your backup is running reliably and the restore feature works. You'll have to consider your network and bandwidth here. Peck's solution is to make sure everyone backs up files to the network. We don't back up on the fly or during the day when wireless files are going back and forth. We back up about 2 a.m. when no one is on the network and there's no wireless activity.
Blocking File Types and File Sharing
Do you block certain file types - such as MP3s and other media and game files - from being freely passed around your network? This is a big issue and deserves careful consideration. At Peck, we do allow students to download legally purchased music to their computers. However, if any of their music, or any other files they may have downloaded, causes the computer to crash, only the normal applications will be reinstalled when the computer is reformatted. It's a fine line..

</file>

<file= AmE06_F46>

During the summer of 2006, from her office adjacent to the White House, deputy national security adviser Meghan O'Sullivan sent President Bush a daily top secret report cataloging the escalating bloodshed and chaos in Iraq. "Violence has acquired a momentum of its own and is now self-sustaining," she wrote July 20, quoting from an intelligence assessment. 
Her dire evaluation contradicted the upbeat assurances that President Bush was hearing from Gen. George W. Casey Jr., the U.S. commander in Iraq. Casey and Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld were pushing to draw down American forces and speed the transfer of responsibility to the Iraqis. Despite months of skyrocketing violence, Casey insisted that within a year, Iraq would be mostly stable, with the bulk of American combat troops headed home. 
Publicly, the president claimed the United States was winning the war, and he expressed unwavering faith in Casey, saying, "It's his judgment that I rely upon." Privately, he was losing confidence in the drawdown strategy. He questioned O'Sullivan that summer with increasing urgency: "What are you hearing from people in Baghdad? What are people's daily lives like?" 
"It's hell, Mr. President," she answered, determined not to mislead or lie to him. 
O'Sullivan was 36, with a PhD from Oxford and a year's experience in Iraq. As the violence had escalated, she began to feel that the strategy of drawing down had become indefensible. For months, she had urged her boss, national security adviser Stephen J. Hadley, to begin a full strategy review.
That summer, with U.S. casualties eclipsing 2,500 deaths and nearly 20,000 wounded, Bush acknowledged to himself what he was not saying publicly: The war had taken a perilous turn for the worse, with 1,000 attacks a week, the equivalent of six an hour. "Underneath my hope was a sense of anxiety," Bush recalled in a May 2008 interview. The strategy was one "that everybody hoped would work. And it did not. And therefore the question is, when you're in my position: If it's not working, what do you do?" 
This is the untold history of how the Bush administration wrestled with that question. Compiled from classified documents and interviews with more than 150 participants, it reveals that the administration's efforts to develop a new Iraq strategy were crippled by dissension among the president's advisers, delayed by political calculations and undermined by a widening and sometimes bitter rift in civilian-military relations. 
No administration willingly puts its disagreements on display, but what happened in Washington during 2006 went beyond the usual give-and-take of government. The level of distrust became so severe that Bush eventually activated a back channel to Casey's replacement in Iraq, Gen. David H. Petraeus, circumventing the established chain of command. While the violence in Iraq skyrocketed to unnerving levels, a second front in the war raged at home, fought at the highest levels of the White House, the Pentagon, the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the State Depart ment. 
* * * 
By mid-2006, Casey, a stout four-star general with wire-rim glasses, had been the commander in Iraq for two years. As American military units rotated in and out, Casey remained the one constant. 
He had concluded that one big problem with the war was the president himself. Since the beginning, Casey felt, the president had viewed the war in conventional terms, repeatedly asking how many of the various enemies had been captured or killed. Casey later confided to a colleague that he had the impression that Bush reflected the "radical wing of the Republican Party that kept saying, 'Kill the bastards! Kill the bastards! And you'll succeed.' " 
Casey was troubled by the thought that the president didn't understand the nature of the fight they were in. The large, heavily armed Western force was on borrowed time, he believed. The president often paid lip service to winning over the Iraqi people, but then he would lean in with greater interest and ask about raids and military operations, grilling Casey about killings and captures. 

Months earlier, during a secure video conference with top military and civilian leaders looking on, he told Casey that it seemed the general wasn't doing enough. "George, we're not playing for a tie," Bush had said. "I want to make sure we all understand this, don't we?" Later in the video conference, Bush emphasized it again: "I want everybody to know we're not playing for a tie. Is that right?"
In Baghdad, Casey's knuckles whitened on the table. The very suggestion was an affront to his dignity that he would long remember, a statement just short of an outright provocation. 
"Mr. President," Casey had said bluntly, "we are not playing for a tie." 
Asked later about Casey's perceptions, Bush insisted in an interview that he understood the nature of the war, whatever Casey might have thought. "I mean, of all people to understand that, it's me," he said. But several of his on-the-record comments lend credence to Casey's concern that the president was overly focused on the number of enemy killed. 
"I asked that on occasion to find out whether or not we were fighting back," he said during the May interview. "Because the perception is, is that our guys are dying and they're not. Because we don't put out numbers. We don't have a tally." He said his overall question to his military commanders was, "Are we making progress in defeating them?" 
"What frustrated me is that from my perspective," he said at another point, "it looked like we were taking casualties without fighting back because our commanders are loath to talk about our battlefield victories." 
Casey also found himself at odds with others in the administration. Once, when he had called the number of civilian personnel who had volunteered to serve in Iraq "paltry," Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice had chided him. General, she had said, you're out of line. 
On another occasion, in late 2005, he butted heads with Rice after her testimony before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, in which she offered a succinct description of the U.S. military strategy in Iraq -- "clear, hold and build: to clear areas from insurgent control, to hold them securely and then build durable Iraqi institutions." 
"What the hell is that?" Casey asked his boss at U.S. Central Command, Gen. John P. Abizaid. 
"I don't know," Abizaid said. 
"Did you agree to that?" 

"No, I didn't agree to that." 
When Rice next came to Iraq, Casey asked for a private meeting with her and U.S. Ambassador Zalmay Khalilzad. 
"Excuse me, ma'am, what's 'clear, hold, build'?" 
Rice looked a little surprised. "George, that's your strategy." 
"Ma'am, if it's my strategy, don't you think someone should have had the courtesy to talk to me about it before you went public with it?" 
"Oh," she said. "Well, we told Gen. [Raymond] Odierno," who served as the liaison between the military and the State Department. 
"Look, ma'am," Casey said, "as hard as I've worked to support the State Department in this thing, the fact that that went forward without anybody talking to me, I consider a foul." 
Rice later apologized to Casey. 
* * * 
O'Sullivan and Hadley tried for months in the summer of 2006 to get an Iraq strategy review underway. But they encountered resistance, as well as the inevitable crush of daily presidential obligations. 
They realized that conducting a review was risky, even under the greatest secrecy. A leak that the White House was questioning its strategy could be devastating. The midterm congressional elections were barely four months away. Iraq was likely to be the main issue, and the Republicans' thin margins in both the Senate and the House were in jeopardy. 
In mid-July 2006, Hadley told the president that he wanted to plant the seed for a full strategy review by asking Rumsfeld, Casey and Khalilzad a series of tough, detailed questions. Because Casey and Khalilzad were in Baghdad, they would have the session in a secure video conference. O'Sullivan hoped that in answering the questions, the three men would wake up and realize, "Hey, this picture has changed." 

Bush gave his blessing, and Hadley scheduled the session for Saturday, July 22, which happened to be Casey's 58th birthday. 
The general was flabbergasted. Just two weeks earlier, the president had been effusive in praising Casey during an exchange with reporters in Chicago. Now Casey had 14 major questions from Hadley, each with a series of sub-questions. Casey counted a total of 50. It didn't take much to see the list was a direct assault on the current strategy. One question was simply: "What is the strategy for Baghdad?" Casey found it demeaning. 
When the video conference was convened, Casey and Khalilzad hoped to put off the questions by giving a routine update. But Hadley was not to be deterred. 
"Is sectarian violence now self-sustaining and thus beyond the capacity of the political process meaningfully to influence?" Hadley asked. 
What the f---? Casey thought. If the answer was yes, then they might as well give up. "No," he said, and wrote "No" on his page of questions. 
Afterward, Rumsfeld made it clear he was not happy with the session, but Hadley and O'Sullivan believed they had at least sparked a strategy debate. Still, it would be almost a month before the president would be fully engaged in a strategy review again, as usual carefully shielded from the public. 
Hadley had kept Rice informed of his efforts to get an internal strategy review going, and she was familiar with the 50-question grilling that Hadley had meted out to Khalilzad and Casey. Rice also favored a reevaluation of the strategy but didn't want "to do anything that would be above the radar screen in the heavy political breathing of the November elections." The administration did not need what she called "a hothouse story" that acknowledged Iraq had gotten so bad that they were considering a new approach. That would play into the hands of critics and antiwar Democrats. 
* * * 
On Thursday, Aug. 17, 2006, the president gathered his war council in the windowless Roosevelt Room of the White House to address the Iraq problem head-on. The temperature outside was headed toward 90 degrees, humid and muggy -- vacation time for most anyone who could escape the summer doldrums of the nation's capital. 
Two weeks earlier, during a visit to the president's ranch, Rice had warned him that the very fabric of Iraqi society was "rending." Picking up on that theme, the president said, "The situation seems to be deteriorating," acknowledging to his closest advisers a rebuttal of his public optimism. He said he was searching for a way to go. "I want to be able to say that I have a plan to punch back," he said. "We need a clear way forward coming out of Labor Day." They had nothing close to a clear way forward that day, with less than three weeks to go. "We have to fight off the impression that this is not winnable," the president said. Support for the war had plummeted. In a recent Gallup poll, 56 percent of Americans said the war was a mistake. Bush's latest approval ratings hovered around 37 percent. 
"Can America succeed?" he asked, one of the few times he seemed to entertain the possibility that it might not. "If so, how? How do our commanders answer that?" 
Abizaid and Casey had joined the meeting through a secure video link. Before they could answer, the president recounted his conversation with a widow of a soldier. The woman had said, according to the president: "Look, I trust you. But can you win?" 

Bush then recited his goals: a free society that could defend, sustain and govern itself while becoming a reliable ally in the global war on terrorism. He added a dreary assessment, saying, "It seems Iraq is incapable of achieving that." 
For two years, Casey's strategy had rested on the premise that he was preparing the Iraqis to take control.

</file>

<file= AmE06_F47>

For the most part, pro-lifers tend to be absolutists. For them, you are either churchgoer or sinner, procreator or contraceptor, for the culture of life or for the culture of death. Pro-choicers, by contrast, tend to be more pragmatic.
For the pro-life movement, decision making is less complicated. For the unmarried, the right course is abstinence (which we'll discuss later). And for everyone, single or married, the right course never, ever leads to abortion. Unfortunately, if the goal is to reduce abortion, the pro-lifers' morally unambiguous strategies don't seem to work.
To begin with, criminalizing abortion may be a sacred pro-life goal. But in practice, bans have failed to curb rates of abortions. Many countries that have outlawed abortion have higher abortion rates than countries where abortion is legal. Brazil, Chile and Peru -- in which the predominant religion is Catholicism -- are among these. (It's worth noting that the Catholic Church wasn't always pro-life. Until 1869, it supported legalized abortion until quickening, at approximately 19 weeks of pregnancy, which is when it considered the fetus was given a soul.) The truth is that if abortion is outlawed, women don't seek services less frequently; they just survive them less often. This has been true in the United States (when abortion was illegal) as well as in many countries abroad today.
And it's not just pro-choice women who seek abortions, and it never has been. Most people would be startled to learn that even today, when battle lines are drawn, 40 percent of women who have abortions in the United States are Evangelical Christian or Catholic. They are your average morality voter, your above-average churchgoer. In all likelihood, they call themselves pro-life. Even though the great wish of pro-lifers is to cast those seeking abortions as irresponsible daters, the actual statistics are more forgiving. The majority of women in the United States (61 percent) having abortions are already moms.
Unable so far to criminalize abortions in the United States, the pro-life movement has taken up a strategy of incrementalism. It has strived to delay abortions, placing hurdle after hurdle in their way. The result has been, even by pro-life definitions, perverse. After all, the net effect hasn't been to stop abortions, but to postpone them until the fetus is more developed and the woman is at greater risk. This strategy is carried out even if it means forcing a woman to have one of those dreaded late-term abortions. Indeed, some of the later-term abortions -- "partial-birth abortions," as the pro-life side labels them -- no doubt occur as a result of campaigns waged by the pro-life movement.
Let's take a look at how this works. One favorite pro-life strategy is to pass laws that require a waiting period before a woman can obtain an abortion. Twenty-three states have enacted what are called "mandatory delay" laws; all are coupled with mandatory-counseling laws that typically require abortion clinics to dispense information designed to dissuade women from having an abortion.
Once a woman receives the counseling, she must wait, usually 24 hours, before she can obtain the abortion. The 24-hour wait may seem inconsequential, but the effect on real lives is considerable. The series of small barriers often means scheduling two days of missed work or missed school, traveling long distances twice -- don't forget, 87 percent of U.S. counties don't have an abortion provider -- and paying to stay overnight in a hotel.
In fact, the statistics show that the mandatory delays postpone the procedure much more than 24 hours. A study of the Mississippi experience found that after August 1992, when the delay law took effect, 53 percent more women had abortions in the second trimester.
In Minnesota and Missouri, after these states enacted parental-consent laws, second-trimester abortions among teens increased in both states, by 18 percent and 27 percent, respectively.
Another barrier to early abortion is money. Here again the pro-life side has assiduously erected hurdles. The Hyde Amendment, named for its sponsor, Republican congressman Henry Hyde, bans the use of public funds for abortion, meaning that poor women who rely on Medicaid to pay their health bills can't get this governmental insurance program to pay for an abortion. Indeed, half of women who had an abortion after 16 weeks say pro-life restrictions were the cause, including needing time "to raise money" to pay for the procedure.
In the war of words, these kinds of outcomes may provide a strategic advantage to pro-lifers. The pro-life side is able to say that it quite reasonably favors involving parents in this important decision, and it endorses a mere 24-hour waiting period for reflection. In reality, these small barriers have a significant effect, not in reducing the number of abortions, but in creating more later-term abortions. It is perhaps convenient for pro-lifers who, it seems, prefer to rail against late-term abortions rather than prevent them.
Despite wide acknowledgment that with abortion, earlier is always safer, for more than a decade the pro-choice movement had to fight staunch pro-life resistance to the abortion method that allows women to end a pregnancy at the earliest moment. That method is medication abortion. Commonly known as RU-486, it is available in more than 29 countries. For decades, millions of women worldwide have used it safely. In the United States this method is called Mifeprex. (The French manufacturers of RU-486 were unwilling to distribute their product in the United States for fear of pro-life violence, so it is distributed by a new company formed for the exclusive purpose of marketing the drug in the United States.)
With all other methods of abortion, a woman must wait approximately seven weeks after her last menstrual period. But Mifeprex, which depends on the action of a pill rather than a surgical intervention, allows women to end a pregnancy as early as four weeks after her last menstrual period (usually meaning she's really only two weeks pregnant). At this stage, the embryo is about the size of the letter "T" as it appears here on this page.
In 2000, after years of struggle, the pro-choice movement succeeded in getting Mifeprex considered by the FDA, which, after extensive review, approved it for distribution. A sad footnote to the pro-life movement's success in keeping Mifeprex out of the United States for years is that U.S. doctors were prevented from studying its other potential uses, like treating many of the most fatal forms of cancer. (As long ago as 1993, the Institute of Medicine of the National Academies of Science, the government's scientific advisers, released a report on the potential life-saving medical uses of RU-486, stating, "Potential benefits of RU-486, other anti-progestins are extensive.")
Today, U.S. medical researchers are making up for lost time, exploring Mifeprex's potential in treating breast cancer, Cushing's syndrome, endometriosis, glaucoma, meningiomas, ovarian cancer, prostate cancer, uterine fibroids, brain tumors and even bipolar depression. With breast cancer alone, it is believed that Mifeprex presents the opportunity to treat 40 percent of all tumors.
Unfortunately, this new research may never reach fruition. The proposed RU-486 Suspension and Review Act of 2005, legislation that originated in the offices of the pro-life Concerned Women for America, would remove this earliest abortion method from the market indefinitely. The reason for wanting a ban, say pro-life groups, is that this simple medication is unsafe. With pro-life groups, supposed "safety" concerns have become one typical way to advance an ideological agenda.
After all, the facts suggest that this early abortion method is extremely safe. Of more than 350,000 American women who have used this drug since 2000, less than 1 percent have had a complication. The likelihood of death resulting from a medication abortion is 0.00085 percent, or less than 1 in 100,000. Compare this to the risk of dying during childbirth, which is 1 in 2,500.
In the case of Mifeprex, it's difficult to see the pro-life concerns with safety as anything but a political ploy. Abortion is one of the safest medical procedures performed in the United States, with less than 1 percent risk of major complication, though, as the pro-life movement well knows, risks do escalate later in pregnancy.
The pro-life movement does have a solution for unwanted pregnancy. It is like the "just say no" campaign against drugs -- the monumentally unsuccessful program of a previous fundamentalist president. The pro-life movement argues, "Just say no to sex until marriage." (This ignores the fact that many abortions, just like unwanted pregnancies, happen to married women too -- nearly 1 in 5 women having an abortion in the United States is married. But put that aside for a moment.) Abstinence for the unmarried may sound like a lovely solution. Clearly, in the religious-tinged, pro-life view, it's more than a solution for the abortion problem. It's an admirable alternative lifestyle, one in which only those who are married have sex, and the sex they have is with the goal of creating a family. Nearly $1 billion in federal and state matching funds has been spent since 1996 on programs that promote chastity until marriage; these programs are directed mainly at teens.
Promoting abstinence has been deemed so important to some that, in the service of this cause, it's been deemed OK to fill kids' heads with half-truths and even untruths. Abstinence programs have at times equated sex with disease, depression and death. Some programs have even tried to convince kids that condoms don't work, so that abstinence seems their only option.
The problem is that abstinence programs don't work. Like many pro-life initiatives, they backfire. Take, for instance, virginity-pledge programs, a main type of abstinence-only program. They are a colossal failure. In these programs, kids publicly promise to stay chaste until marriage
These programs, it should be acknowledged, do lead teens to abstain from intercourse for, on average, 18 months longer than teens not in similar programs. And that's impressive. In the teen years, 18 months is a big chunk of time. Yet, it's worth noting, those 18 intercourse-free months are a special time and not exactly what the pro-life sponsors had in mind. A major study of some 2,500 "virgin pledgers" showed that the kids who pledge to abstain from having intercourse don't abstain from sex. They just have other kinds of sex. Virginity pledgers have porn-star sex (though porn stars appear more likely to use protection). These "virgins" are six times more likely to have oral sex than nonpledgers, and male "virgins" are four times more likely to have anal sex than those who do not take the pledge.
In Minnesota, the Department of Health commissioned a study of the state's Education Now and Babies Later abstinence-only program. Alarmingly, it found that at three schools sexual activity actually doubled among junior high school students after they participated in the abstinence program. It was as if the program acted as an aphrodisiac. Within just one year, the number of participants who said they would "probably" have sex during high school nearly doubled as well. With the exception of some promising effects on parent-teen communication, the study found no positive impact of the program on teen sexual behavior.
The truth is that half of all teens between 15 and 19 are sexually active in the United States. Whether kids attend abstinence-only programs or not, they appear equally likely to have sex.
[But] it hardly seems likely that an alternative strategy will emerge from the federal government, now run by the abstainer-in-chief. Before George W. Bush took over the presidency in 2000, he had already sunk large sums of public monies into abstinence-only programs. As governor of Texas, he'd spent $10 million on such programs. Yet today, Texas is one of the more dangerous places in the country to be uneducated about safe sex. Texas has the fourth-largest population of people living with HIV/AIDS in the United States.
Despite the high stakes and hefty sums, Texas managed to keep most of its students in the dark about protection. Few, for instance, seemed to know about the effectiveness of condoms.

</file>

<file= AmE06_F48>

Americans are glum at the moment. No, I mean really glum. In April, a new poll revealed that 81 percent of the American people believe that the country is on the "wrong track." In the 25 years that pollsters have asked this question, last month's response was by far the most negative. Other polls, asking similar questions, found levels of gloom that were even more alarming, often at 30- and 40-year highs. There are reasons to be pessimistic - a financial panic and looming recession, a seemingly endless war in Iraq, and the ongoing threat of terrorism. But the facts on the ground - unemployment numbers, foreclosure rates, deaths from terror attacks - are simply not dire enough to explain the present atmosphere of malaise.
American anxiety springs from something much deeper, a sense that large and disruptive forces are coursing through the world. In almost every industry, in every aspect of life, it feels like the patterns of the past are being scrambled. "Whirl is king, having driven out Zeus," wrote Aristophanes 2,400 years ago. And - for the first time in living memory - the United States does not seem to be leading the charge. Americans see that a new world is coming into being, but fear it is one being shaped in distant lands and by foreign people.
Look around. The world's tallest building is in Taipei, and will soon be in Dubai. Its largest publicly traded company is in Beijing. Its biggest refinery is being constructed in India. Its largest passenger airplane is built in Europe. The largest investment fund on the planet is in Abu Dhabi; the biggest movie industry is Bollywood, not Hollywood. Once quintessentially American icons have been usurped by the natives. The largest Ferris wheel is in Singapore. The largest casino is in Macao, which overtook Las Vegas in gambling revenues last year. America no longer dominates even its favorite sport, shopping. The Mall of America in Minnesota once boasted that it was the largest shopping mall in the world. Today it wouldn't make the top ten. In the most recent rankings, only two of the world's ten richest people are American. These lists are arbitrary and a bit silly, but consider that only ten years ago, the United States would have serenely topped almost every one of these categories.
These factoids reflect a seismic shift in power and attitudes. It is one that I sense when I travel around the world. In America, we are still debating the nature and extent of anti-Americanism. One side says that the problem is real and worrying and that we must woo the world back. The other says this is the inevitable price of power and that many of these countries are envious - and vaguely French - so we can safely ignore their griping. But while we argue over why they hate us, "they" have moved on, and are now far more interested in other, more dynamic parts of the globe. The world has shifted from anti-Americanism to post-Americanism.
I. The End of Pax Americana
During the 1980s, when I would visit India - where I grew up - most Indians were fascinated by the United States. Their interest, I have to confess, was not in the important power players in Washington or the great intellectuals in Cambridge.
People would often ask me about  ...  Donald Trump. He was the very symbol of the United States - brassy, rich, and modern. He symbolized the feeling that if you wanted to find the biggest and largest anything, you had to look to America. Today, outside of entertainment figures, there is no comparable interest in American personalities. If you wonder why, read India's newspapers or watch its television. There are dozens of Indian businessmen who are now wealthier than the Donald. Indians are obsessed by their own vulgar real estate billionaires. And that newfound interest in their own story is being replicated across much of the world.
How much? Well, consider this fact. In 2006 and 2007, 124 countries grew their economies at over 4 percent a year. That includes more than 30 countries in Africa. Over the last two decades, lands outside the industrialized West have been growing at rates that were once unthinkable. While there have been booms and busts, the overall trend has been unambiguously upward. Antoine van Agtmael, the fund manager who coined the term "emerging markets," has identified the 25 companies most likely to be the world's next great multinationals. His list includes four companies each from Brazil, Mexico, South Korea, and Taiwan; three from India, two from China, and one each from Argentina, Chile, Malaysia, and South Africa. This is something much broader than the much-ballyhooed rise of China or even Asia. It is the rise of the rest - the rest of the world.
We are living through the third great power shift in modern history. The first was the rise of the Western world, around the 15th century. It produced the world as we know it now - science and technology, commerce and capitalism, the industrial and agricultural revolutions. It also led to the prolonged political dominance of the nations of the Western world. The second shift, which took place in the closing years of the 19th century, was the rise of the United States. Once it industrialized, it soon became the most powerful nation in the world, stronger than any likely combination of other nations. For the last 20 years, America's superpower status in every realm has been largely unchallenged - something that's never happened before in history, at least since the Roman Empire dominated the known world 2,000 years ago. During this Pax Americana, the global economy has accelerated dramatically. And that expansion is the driver behind the third great power shift of the modern age - the rise of the rest.
At the military and political level, we still live in a unipolar world. But along every other dimension - industrial, financial, social, cultural - the distribution of power is shifting, moving away from American dominance. In terms of war and peace, economics and business, ideas and art, this will produce a landscape that is quite different from the one we have lived in until now - one defined and directed from many places and by many peoples.
The post-American world is naturally an unsettling prospect for Americans, but it should not be. This will not be a world defined by the decline of America but rather the rise of everyone else. It is the result of a series of positive trends that have been progressing over the last 20 years, trends that have created an international climate of unprecedented peace and prosperity.
I know. That's not the world that people perceive. We are told that we live in dark, dangerous times. Terrorism, rogue states, nuclear proliferation, financial panics, recession, outsourcing, and illegal immigrants all loom large in the national discourse. Al Qaeda, Iran, North Korea, China, Russia are all threats in some way or another. But just how violent is today's world, really?
A team of scholars at the University of Maryland has been tracking deaths caused by organized violence. Their data show that wars of all kinds have been declining since the mid-1980s and that we are now at the lowest levels of global violence since the 1950s. Deaths from terrorism are reported to have risen in recent years. But on closer examination, 80 percent of those casualties come from Afghanistan and Iraq, which are really war zones with ongoing insurgencies - and the overall numbers remain small. Looking at the evidence, Harvard's polymath professor Steven Pinker has ventured to speculate that we are probably living "in the most peaceful time of our species' existence."
Why does it not feel that way? Why do we think we live in scary times? Part of the problem is that as violence has been ebbing, information has been exploding. The last 20 years have produced an information revolution that brings us news and, most crucially, images from around the world all the time. The immediacy of the images and the intensity of the 24-hour news cycle combine to produce constant hype. Every weather disturbance is the "storm of the decade." Every bomb that explodes is BREAKING NEWS. Because the information revolution is so new, we - reporters, writers, readers, viewers - are all just now figuring out how to put everything in context.
We didn't watch daily footage of the two million people who died in Indochina in the 1970s, or the million who perished in the sands of the Iran-Iraq war ten years later. We saw little of the civil war in the Congo in the 1990s, where millions died. But today any bomb that goes off, any rocket that is fired, any death that results, is documented by someone, somewhere and ricochets instantly across the world. Add to this terrorist attacks, which are random and brutal. "That could have been me," you think. Actually, your chances of being killed in a terrorist attack are tiny - for an American, smaller than drowning in your bathtub. But it doesn't feel like that.
The threats we face are real. Islamic jihadists are a nasty bunch - they do want to attack civilians everywhere. But it is increasingly clear that militants and suicide bombers make up a tiny portion of the world's 1.3 billion Muslims. They can do real damage, especially if they get their hands on nuclear weapons. But the combined efforts of the world's governments have effectively put them on the run and continue to track them and their money. Jihad persists, but the jihadists have had to scatter, work in small local cells, and use simple and undetectable weapons. They have not been able to hit big, symbolic targets, especially ones involving Americans. So they blow up bombs in cafés, marketplaces, and subway stations. The problem is that in doing so, they kill locals and alienate ordinary Muslims. Look at the polls. Support for violence of any kind has dropped dramatically over the last five years in all Muslim countries.
Militant groups have reconstituted in certain areas where they exploit a particular local issue or have support from a local ethnic group or sect, most worryingly in Pakistan and Afghanistan where Islamic radicalism has become associated with Pashtun identity politics. But as a result, these groups are becoming more local and less global. Al Qaeda in Iraq, for example, has turned into a group that is more anti-Shiite than anti-American. The bottom line is this: since 9/11, Al Qaeda Central, the gang run by Osama bin Laden, has not been able to launch a single major terror attack in the West or any Arab country - its original targets. They used to do terrorism, now they make videotapes. Of course one day they will get lucky again, but that they have been stymied for almost seven years points out that in this battle between governments and terror groups, the former need not despair.
Some point to the dangers posed by countries like Iran. These rogue states present real problems, but look at them in context. The American economy is 68 times the size of Iran's. Its military budget is 110 times that of the mullahs. Were Iran to attain a nuclear capacity, it would complicate the geopolitics of the Middle East. But none of the problems we face compare with the dangers posed by a rising Germany in the first half of the 20th century or an expansionist Soviet Union in the second half. Those were great global powers bent on world domination. If this is 1938, as some neoconservatives tell us, then Iran is Romania, not Germany.
Others paint a dark picture of a world in which dictators are on the march. China and Russia and assorted other oil potentates are surging. We must draw the battle lines now, they warn, and engage in a great Manichean struggle that will define the next century. Some of John McCain's rhetoric has suggested that he adheres to this dire, dyspeptic view. But before we all sign on for a new Cold War, let's take a deep breath and gain some perspective.

</file>

