<file= AmE06_R01>

I think one of the things that makes me unique is that as far back as I can remember, I have always talked to a lot of things besides people. I found it comforting, a way to prove that I existed. From early childhood on, I was haunted by the feeling that no one could hear me.

I was not without my reasons. My mother, Joyce, demanded and usually got all of whatever attention was available. She was beautiful enough to have stumbled into an accidental modeling career when she was seventeen just by waving at a photographer at the beach. Dressed in her yellow plaid shorts set and a big straw hat, she looked like a cast member of some seldom seen television show greeting smitten fans. A few months later, when her picture turned up in hundreds of inexpensive frames for sale at discount drugstores, it made my mother a local celebrity. Unfortunately, because she'd signed a release and accepted fifty dollars, she never received any more money. But once she realized that people knew who she was, she felt entitled to dominate any gathering, large or small, whether or not she had anything to say. I figured out, early on, that getting a word in edgewise wasn't going to be in the cards for me. So I became a quiet, obedient kid, good at blending in, easy tooverlook. I learned to cope with my need for attention by creating my own private personal rituals to make myself feel special.

As early as second grade, I'd take the phone into the closet when I got home from school and call local radio shows so I could dedicate songs to myself. Then I'd spend hours by the radio, switching from station to station in the hope that at least one deejay would say, " 'You Light Up My Life' by Debbie Boone goes out to the girl who lights up everybody's life, Dawn Tarnauer." I never did hear anyone say it, but I kept right on hoping. While I waited, I would pretend to host my own TV show. For guests I would interview whatever was available: my plastic horses, my stuffed animals, my mother's cat, my chair, my own reflection.

But The Day Everything Changed was the first time that anything ever answered me back.

I was born to the prefeminist version of my mother, a woman with a constantly lit cigarette and a perpetually jiggling leg, bored out of her mind but not sure what to do about it. I think she saw her firstborn much the same way she did her never finished pieces of decoupage: as something that needed more work than she had time for. By the time I was five, I had figured out that the fastest way to my mother's heart was to fetch her cigarettes and tell her everything was going to be okay.

Halley, my sister, was born when I was six. Sometime during that pregnancy, my mother turned into a feminist. She dropped her decoupage work (which consisted mainly of hatboxes shellacked with magazine clippings of female faces that looked like her own) in favor of something called "creative breakthrough parenting," where she learned that she could offset parental neglect through the use of extravagant praise. I remember not quite trusting all her suddenly effusive reinforcement, even finding it kind of embarrassing. But it worked like gangbusters on Halley, who loved hearing that her preschool drawings were "as good as Matisse" and her one-finger piano compositions had the precocious brilliance of a grade school Beethoven. This despite the fact that neither of us really had any idea who those people were.

Of course, now that Halley and I were both effortlessly producing masterworks and our careers in the arts were assured, my mother rationalized that her presence at parent-teacher conferences and school events would be gilding the lily. This was fine with me. I was comfortable living under the radar. But it was different for Halley, who grew up feeling entitled to center stage and wondering why it seemed to elude her. When she auditioned for the seventh-grade play, Miracle on 34th Street, and was cast not as the lead but as one of the two dozen Christmas shoppers, it triggered in her an obsessive desire for a persona that everyone noticed. Soon she was dying her curly brown hair blue black, then red, then blond, and then black with orange streaks. She also started dressing more and more theatrically, favoring oversize round sunglasses, a dark head scarf, and a floor-length faux-fur coat--kind of an unintentional homage to Jackie O at Aristotle's funeral. But despite her valiant efforts, Halley never succeeded in gaining the moniker she wanted, which would have been something as simple as "the mysterious girl dressed in black." If the kids remembered to call her anything at all, it was something less mythic and more direct, like "dork."

In that way, Halley was a chip off the old block. Because as we got older, Joyce, our mother, kept searching endlessly, tirelessly, for her true life's calling. A new image was usually the first sign that things were about to change. She bounced from long-haired flamenco dancer to short-haired Scientology acolyte to buzz-cut-wearing animal- rights activist who walked picket lines at pet stores, held fund- raisers for rescue organizations, and chained herself to a five- hundred-pound Galapagos tortoise at Marine World. There was always something more pressing for my mother than paying attention to her daughters. It was clear to us that if we demanded too much of her time, it would have to be unfairly stolen from condemned animals. By taking care of ourselves and asking for nothing, we believed we were helping puppies and kittens stay alive.

On the surface, Halley and I probably looked like nice if slightly eccentric girls. Our grades were okay. We weren't out partying or doing drugs. But on closer inspection, we had constructed a yin and yang of defense mechanisms, neurotic tics, and eating disorders. While I was busy hiding bags of pecan sandies under my bedspread to make sure I was never more than an arm's length from sugar, just a few feet away Halley was diligently dividing a single package of celery into three days' worth of meals.

Fortunately, there was a father in residence to help this teeter- tottering family create some stability: Ted Tarnauer, owner and general manager of a small but popular vintage car repair. Ted was very proud of his history as a rockabilly guy from the days of Levi and the Rockats, a glimpse of which could be gotten by scrutinizing the triptych of dusty warped black-and-white photos in plastic frames that hung on the wall by his desk at the shop. Though taken from below stage level so he appeared to be fifteen feet tall and 50 percent nostril, you could still recognize him: the young Ted, his big greasy blond hair swooping into his face, his skinny body curled like a question mark over his guitar, looking handsome and arrogant, sporting a curled-lip sneer that spoke of meth and moonshine. This was Dad's real passion. He put a lot of time into perfecting the authentic fifties outfits he wore when his band, the Cheaterslicks, played. Even now he was very pleased when girls under forty got crushes on him and was proud when they sometimes said he looked like Brian Setzer. (Though the older ones more often referenced the mature Conway Twitty, which was also fine, but he liked it less.)

Ted was quite the talker. It didn't take much to launch him into a monologue so impenetrable that his friends worried there might be no bathroom breaks. Yet despite his retro rocker exterior, by middle age Dad had morphed into a right-wing neocon who wrote in Pat Buchanan's name on ballots where once he had written in Duane Eddy.

From early childhood on, Halley and I worshipped our daddy but were constantly worried that he might leave. We knew he was unhappy. It was hard to miss, since he had a tendency to break down and weep after a couple of beers.

To say nothing of the fact that by the time I was in third grade, I was finding him asleep on the couch in the morning when I left for school. The realization that I couldn't remember when I'd last seen him in the bedroom with Mom, caused me to lie awake at night, plotting ways to make him happier. As it turned out, homemade greeting cards and blueberry muffins weren't what his life was missing. He left our home for good when I was ten.

Less than a month after he moved out he announced his intention to marry a woman from the neighborhood whose car he'd remodeled. It was unnerving that she looked enough like my mother to be her sister. The nuptials, which took place a few months after that, were a big festive event with a meticulous, if somewhat desperate, retro fifties theme full of hoop skirts, pegged pants, and Jell-O molds. The Cheaterslicks played. Everybody danced the Lindy hop.

The following day at school, I had my first asthma attack.

From that point forward, the only time I could count on seeing my dad was when each of his new romances imploded. Then he'd reappear with bribes for us in exchange for helping him pack. "I got some more cool stuff for you," he'd say, revealing a box of things he took out of the cars he got from salvage: pencils, reading glasses, comic books that were missing a cover, gloves with the fingers stuck together, bobble-headed Dodgers. "You girls take whatever you want," he'd say, "but first do Daddy a favor and stuff those Road and Tracks into that black gym bag."

By my late teens, I was tall and blond and tan from swimming, running, surfing, and riding my bike. I was in good enough shape to wear a bikini without flinching. Even though my grades were all B's and A's, I was an insecure mess. When I think back to that period, I see myself as kind of the flip side to the Girl from Ipanema. Because although I was getting my share of attention from the opposite sex, I remember a lot more people saying "Jesus Christ, Dawn! Are you nuts?" than going "Aaaah." Like when I decided to get married right out of high school to someone I barely knew, in an unintentional homage to my parents.

In keeping with the Tarnauer family tradition, my first husband, Neil, was domineering, helpless, and prone to spontaneous bursts of theatrical emotion. Like Dad, Neil was equal parts in love with his own dramas and the selfless way I offered rapt attention.

When I met him, I was working the midmorning shift at the Lunch Box in Simi Valley, the only job I could find when I graduated from high school. I was feeling anonymous, directionless, and at a loss when Neil and his big, big plans appeared one day like a door to a world of limitless possibilities. Neil was fourteen years my senior and knowledgeable about lots of things: the stock market, the environment, politics, civil law, filmmaking. We got married at City Hall a month after we started dating and moved to a two-room apartment in his hometown of Fresno, where, he claimed, his connections would work to our advantage.

The plan was for us both to get jobs, pool our money, and produce a series of documentaries about the deadly fungus endangering the health of many species of frogs. With Neil's knowledge and my energy and support, we were poised to accomplish great things. Right up until the day Neil got a job tending bar at the Scoreboard, a sports bar downtown. He quickly became so enamored of his new role as the local long-haired authority on absolutely everything that he didn't even notice when our dreams of glory began to die on the vine.

</file>

<file= AmE06_R02>

PART ONE 
THE SORRY BUSINESS
Charlie Asher walked the earth like an ant walks on the surface of water, as if the slightest misstep might send him plummeting through the surface to be sucked to the depths below.
Blessed with the Beta Male imagination, he spent much of his life squinting into the future so he might spot ways in which the world was conspiring to kill him - him; his wife, Rachel; and now, newborn Sophie. But despite his attention, his paranoia, his ceaseless fretting from the moment Rachel peed a blue stripe on the pregnancy stick to the time they wheeled her into recovery at St. Francis Memorial, Death slipped in.
"She's not breathing," Charlie said.
"She's breathing fine," Rachel said, patting the baby's back. "Do you want to hold her?"
1
BECAUSE I COULD NOT STOP FOR DEATH -  
HE KINDLY STOPPED FOR ME - 
Charlie had held baby Sophie for a few seconds earlier in the day, and had handed her quickly to a nurse insisting that someone more qualified than he do some finger and toe counting. He'd done it twice and kept coming up with twenty-one.
"They act like that's all there is to it. Like if the kid has the minimum ten fingers and ten toes it's all going to be fine. What if there are extras? Huh? Extra-credit fingers? What if the kid has a tail?" (Charlie was sure he'd spotted a tail in the six-month sonogram. Umbilical indeed! He'd kept a hard copy.)
"She doesn't have a tail, Mr. Asher," the nurse explained. "And it's ten and ten, we've all checked. Perhaps you should go home and get some rest."
"I'll still love her, even with her extra finger."
"She's perfectly normal."
"Or toe."
"We really do know what we're doing, Mr. Asher. She's a beautiful, healthy baby girl."
"Or a tail."
The nurse sighed. She was short, wide, and had a tattoo of a snake up her right calf that showed through her white nurse stockings. She spent four hours of every workday massaging preemie babies, her hands threaded through ports in a Lucite incubator, like she was handling a radioactive spark in there. She talked to them, coaxed them, told them how special they were, and felt their hearts fluttering in chests no bigger than a balled-up pair of sweat socks. She cried over every one, and believed that her tears and touch poured a bit of her own life into the tiny bodies, which was just fine with her. She could spare it. She had been a neonatal nurse for twenty years and had never so much as raised her voice to a new father. "There's no goddamn tail, you doofus! Look!" She pulled down the blanket and aimed baby Sophie's bottom at him like she might unleash a fusillade of weapons-grade poopage such as the guileless Beta Male had never seen.
Charlie jumped back - a lean and nimble thirty, he was - then, once he realized that the baby wasn't loaded, he straightened the lapels on his tweed jacket in a gesture of righteous indignation. "You could have removed her tail in the delivery room and we'd never know." He didn't know. He'd been asked to leave the delivery room, first by the ob-gyn and finally by Rachel. ("Him or me," Rachel said. "One of us has to go.")
In Rachel's room, Charlie said: "If they removed her tail, I want it. She'll want it when she gets older."
"Sophie, your Papa isn't really insane. He just hasn't slept for a couple of days."
"She's looking at me," Charlie said. "She's looking at me like I blew her college money at the track and now she's going to have to turn tricks to get her MBA."
Rachel took his hand. "Honey, I don't think her eyes can even focus this early, and besides, she's a little young to start worrying about her turning tricks to get her MFA."
"MBA," Charlie corrected. "They start very young these days. By the time I figure out how to get to the track, she could be old enough. God, your parents are going to hate me."
"And that would be different how?"
"New reasons, that's how. Now I've made their granddaughter a shiksa."
"She's not a shiksa, Charlie. We've been through this. She's my daughter, so she's as Jewish as I am."
Charlie went down on one knee next to the bed and took one of Sophie's tiny hands between his fingers. "Daddy's sorry he made you a shiksa." He put his head down, buried his face in the crook where the baby met Rachel's side. Rachel traced his hairline with her fingernail, describing a tight U-turn around his narrow forehead.
"You need to go home and get some sleep."
Charlie mumbled something into the covers. When he looked up there were tears in his eyes. "She feels warm."
"She is warm. She's supposed to be. It's a mammal thing. Goes with the breast-feeding. Why are you crying?"
"You guys are so beautiful." He began arranging Rachel's dark hair across the pillow, brought a long lock down over Sophie's head, and started styling it into a baby hairpiece.
"It will be okay if she can't grow hair. There was that angry Irish singer who didn't have any hair and she was attractive. If we had her tail we could transplant plugs from that."
"Charlie! Go home!"
"Your parents will blame me. Their bald shiksa granddaughter turning tricks and getting a business degree - it will be all my fault."
Rachel grabbed the buzzer from the blanket and held it up like it was wired to a bomb. "Charlie, if you don't go home and get some sleep right now, I swear I'll buzz the nurse and have her throw you out."
She sounded stern, but she was smiling. Charlie liked looking at her smile, always had; it felt like approval and permission at the same time. Permission to be Charlie Asher.
"Okay, I'll go." He reached to feel her forehead. "Do you have a fever? You look tired."
"I just gave birth, you squirrel!"
"I'm just concerned about you." He was not a squirrel. She was blaming him for Sophie's tail, that's why she'd said squirrel, and not doofus like everyone else.
"Sweetie, go. Now. So I can get some rest."
Charlie fluffed her pillows, checked her water pitcher, tucked in the blankets, kissed her forehead, kissed the baby's head, fluffed the baby, then started to rearrange the flowers that his mother had sent, moving the big stargazer lily in the front, accenting it with a spray of baby's breath - 
"Charlie!"
"I'm going. Jeez." He checked the room, one last time, then backed toward the door.
"Can I bring you anything from home?"
"I'll be fine. The ready kit you packed covered everything, I think. In fact, I may not even need the fire extinguisher."
"Better to have it and not need it, than to need it - "
"Go! I'll get some rest, the doctor will check Sophie out, and we'll take her home in the morning."
"That seems soon."
"It's standard."
"Should I bring more propane for the camp stove?"
"We'll try to make it last."
"But - "
Rachel held up the buzzer, as if her demands were not met, the consequences could be dire. "Love you," she said.
"Love you, too," Charlie said. "Both of you."
"Bye, Daddy." Rachel puppeted Sophie's little hand in a wave.
Charlie felt a lump rising in his throat. No one had ever called him Daddy before, not even a puppet. (He had once asked Rachel, "Who's your daddy?" during sex, to which she had replied, "Saul Goldstein," thus rendering him impotent for a week and raising all kinds of issues that he didn't really like to think about.)
He backed out of the room, palming the door shut as he went, then headed down the hall and past the desk where the neonatal nurse with the snake tattoo gave him a sideways smile as he went by.
Charlie drove a six-year-old minivan that he'd inherited from his father, along with the thrift store and the building that housed it. The minivan always smelled faintly of dust, mothballs, and body odor, despite a forest of smell-good Christmas trees that Charlie had hung from every hook, knob, and protrusion. He opened the car door and the odor of the unwanted - the wares of the thrift-store owner - washed over him.
Before he even had the key in the ignition, he noticed the Sarah McLachlan CD lying on the passenger seat. Well, Rachel was going to miss that. It was her favorite CD and there she was, recovering without it, and he could not have that. Charlie grabbed the CD, locked the van, and headed back up to Rachel's room.
To his relief, the nurse had stepped away from the desk so he didn't have to endure her frosty stare of accusation, or what he guessed would be her frosty stare of accusation. He'd mentally prepared a short speech about how being a good husband and father included anticipating the wants and needs of his wife and that included bringing her music - well, he could use the speech on the way out if she gave him the frosty stare.
He opened the door to Rachel's room slowly so as not to startle her - anticipating her warm smile of disapproval, but instead she appeared to be asleep and there was a very tall black man dressed in mint green standing next to her bed.
"What are you doing here?"
The man in mint green turned, startled. "You can see me?" He gestured to his chocolate-brown tie, and Charlie was reminded, just for a second, of those thin mints they put on the pillow in nicer hotels.
"Of course I can see you. What are you doing here?"
Charlie moved to Rachel's bedside, putting himself between the stranger and his family. Baby Sophie seemed fascinated by the tall black man.
"This is not good," said Mint Green.
"You're in the wrong room," Charlie said. "You get out of here." Charlie reached behind and patted Rachel's hand.
"This is really, really not good."
"Sir, my wife is trying to sleep and you're in the wrong room. Now please go before - "
"She's not sleeping," said Mint Green. His voice was soft, and a little Southern. "I'm sorry."
Charlie turned to look down at Rachel, expecting to see her smile, hear her tell him to calm down, but her eyes were closed and her head had lolled off the pillow.
"Honey?" Charlie dropped the CD he was carrying and shook her gently. "Honey?"
Baby Sophie began to cry. Charlie felt Rachel's forehead, took her by the shoulders, and shook her. "Honey, wake up. Rachel." He put his ear to her heart and heard nothing. "Nurse!"
Charlie scrambled across the bed to grab the buzzer that had slipped from Rachel's hand and lay on the blanket. "Nurse!" He pounded the button and turned to look at the man in mint green.
"What happened . . ."
He was gone.
Charlie ran into the hall, but no one was out there. "Nurse!" Twenty seconds later the nurse with the snake tattoo arrived, followed in another thirty seconds by a resuscitation team with a crash cart.
There was nothing they could do.

2 A FINE EDGE
There's a fine edge to new grief, it severs nerves, disconnects reality - there's mercy in a sharp blade. Only with time, as the edge wears, does the real ache begin. So Charlie was barely even aware of his own shrieks in Rachel's hospital room, of being sedated, of the filmy electric hysteria that netted everything he did for that first day. After that, it was a memory out of a sleepwalk, scenes filmed from a zombie's eye socket, as he ambled undead through explanations, accusations, preparations, and ceremony. "It's called a cerebal thromboembolism," the doctor had said. "A blood clot forms in the legs or pelvis during labor, then moves to the brain, cutting off the blood supply."

</file>

<file= AmE06_R03>

A BOLD NEW DIRECTION! OR, NOT!
It was a momentous year, a year of events that will echo in the annals of history the way a dropped plate of calamari echoes in an Italian restaurant with a tile floor. Decades from now, our grandchildren will come to us and say, "Tell us, Grandpa or Grandma as the case may be, what it was like to be alive in the year that Angelina Jolie, Tom Cruise, Brad Pitt, Britney Spears, and Katie whatshername all had babies, although not necessarily in those combinations." And we will smile wisely and emit a streamer of drool, because we will be very old and unable to hear them.
And that will be a good thing, because there are many things about 2006 that we will not want to remember. This was the year in which the members of the United States Congress, who do not bother to read the actual bills they pass, spent weeks poring over instant messages sent by a pervert. This was the year in which the vice president of the United States shot a lawyer, which turned out to be totally legal in Texas. This was the year in which there came to be essentially no difference between the treatment of maximum security prison inmates and the treatment of commercial airline passengers.
This was the year in which - as clearly foretold in the Bible as a sign of the Apocalypse - Howie Mandel got a hit TV show.
Also, there were many pesky problems left over from 2005 that refused to go away in 2006, including Iraq, immigration, high gas prices, terrorism, global warming, avian flu, Iran, North Korea, and Paris Hilton. Future generations are going to look back at this era and ask us how we could have allowed Paris Hilton to happen and we are not going to have a good answer.
Did anything good happen in 2006? Let me think. No. But before we move on to 2007, let's take a moment to reflect back on the historic events, real and imaginary, of this historic year, starting with...
JANUARY
.. . a month that dawns with petty partisan bickering in Washington, D.C., a place where many people view petty partisan bickering as honest, productive work, like making furniture. The immediate cause of the bickering is the Republican ethics scandal involving lobbyist Jack Abramoff and House Majority Leader Tom DeLay, both of whom you can tell, just by looking at them, are guilty of something. The Democrats charge that the Republicans have created a "Culture of Corruption" and should be thrown out of office so the Democrats can return to power and run the scandal-free style of government for which they are so famous. The Republicans respond that the Democrats are soft on terrorism soft on terrorism soft on terrorism softonterrorism. Both sides issue press releases far into the night.
The other big focus of the bickering is the nomination of Samuel Alito to the Supreme Court. As always, the Senate Judiciary Committee hearings provide high-quality TV entertainment as the nation tunes in to see if Sen. Edward M. Kennedy will be able to successfully remember the nominee's name. The bulk of the hearings are spent in the traditional manner, with Democrats trying to trick the nominee into revealing his views on abortion and Republicans reminding the nominee that he does not have to reveal his views on abortion. The subsequent exchange of press releases is so intense that several government photocopiers burst into flames.
In the War on Terror, Osama bin Laden, who may or may not be dead, nevertheless releases another audiotape, for the first time making it downloadable from iTunes. Bin Laden also starts a blog, in which he calls upon his followers to destroy the corrupt Infidels and also try to find out how a person, hypothetically, can get Chinese food delivered to a cave.
In the Middle East, Palestinian voters elect the militant Hamas Party, which assumes control of government functions such as street repair, which Hamas decides to handle by firing rockets at potholes. Canada also holds elections, which are won by some Canadian, we assume.
In economic news, the big story is the retirement of Federal Reserve Board chairman Alan Greenspan, who, after nineteen years as the person most responsible for guiding the American economy, steps down, taking with him the thanks of a grateful nation and a suitcase containing $11 billion. But the financial news is not so good in...
FEBRUARY
.. . when President Bush, delivering what is billed as a "major address on energy policy," reveals that the nation has an "addiction" to "foreign oil," which comes from "foreign countries" located "outside of the United States" that are getting this oil from "under the ground." To combat this problem, the president proposes the development of "new technology" in the form of "inventions," such as "a Lincoln Navigator that gets 827 miles per gallon," although he allows that this could "take time."
But this bold energy initiative does not get nearly as much attention as the administration's decision to allow a company owned by the United Arab Emirates to operate six U.S. seaports. This outrages Congress, which briefly ceases partisan bickering to demand that the White House return control of the ports, in the interest of national security, to Anthony Soprano.
Speaking of guys who avoid the limelight: Vice President Dick Cheney, attempting to bring down a quail with a shotgun, shoots attorney Harry Whittington. Local authorities rule the shooting was an accident, noting that if the vice president was going to intentionally shoot somebody it would be Nancy Pelosi. The quail is eventually tracked down and vaporized by an F-16.
Internationally, the big news comes from Denmark, center of a mounting furor over some cartoons, published the previous year in a Danish newspaper, which depict a prophet whom, in the interest of not offending anybody, we will refer to as Fohammed. This upsets several million of the prophet's followers, who request a formal apology from the newspaper, greater sensitivity to their religious beliefs, and, where necessary, beheadings. Eventually, everybody realizes that the whole darned thing was just a silly misunderstanding. That is all we are going to say about this.
In sports, Super Bowl XVXXLMCMII takes place in Detroit, and, by all accounts, it's a big success for the Motor City, with huge crowds thronging to both of the restaurants. The Pittsburgh Steelers win a game featuring a controversial play in which an apparent Seattle Seahawk touchdown pass is called back after the Steeler defender - in what is later ruled an accident - is gunned down by Vice President Cheney.
But the big sporting event is the Winter Olympics, a glorious, quadrennial celebration of world-class virtuoso athletic accomplishment in sports nobody has ever heard of. Surprise winners include Latvia in the 500-kilometer Modified Nordic Combined; the Republic of Irvingkahnistan in the 2,300-meter Slavic Personified; and U.S. skier Bode Miller in Most Nike Commercials Featuring a Competitor Who, in the Actual Competitions, Mainly Falls Down.
Speaking of falling, in...
MARCH
.. . the real-estate boom appears to be over, as the government reports that, so far in 2006, only one U.S. homeowner managed to sell his house and he had to offer, as an incentive to the buyer, his wife. But the employment numbers remain strong, thanks to strong growth in the sector of people trying to get you to refinance your mortgage for, like, the sixth time. Meanwhile, as the average gasoline price creeps past $2.50, the Hummer company, having downsized from the massive Hummer to the somewhat smaller H2, and then to the even smaller H3, begins development of the H4, which the company says will be "a very rugged skateboard."
In the Academy Awards, the overwhelming favorite for best picture is Brokeback Mountain, the story of two men who discover, while spending many isolated weeks together in the mountains, that they enjoy exchanging instant messages with Mark Foley. But in a stunning upset, the Oscar for best picture instead goes to Crash, a documentary about Bode Miller.
In other entertainment news, a book by two San Francisco Chronicle writers revives suspicions about possible steroid use by San Francisco Giants slugger Barry Bonds, alleging, with extensive documentation, that as recently as ten years ago Bonds was a woman.
In other science news, thrilled NASA astronomers, in what they describe as a "smashing, surprising" discovery, announce that they have found evidence of pockets of water beneath the surface of Enceladus, one of the moons of Saturn, which strongly suggests - as has long been suspected - that astronomers do not get out much.
In foreign news, Israeli voters give a parliamentary majority to acting prime minister Ehud Olmert, because his name can be rearranged to spell hot eel drum. Meanwhile, in Paris, thousands of demonstrators take to the streets and shut down the city to demonstrate the fact that, hey, it's Paris. In the Middle East, tension mounts in response to mounting tension. We don't know specifically what is happening in Africa, but we know it is bad.
Speaking of things we know are bad, in...
APRIL
.. . Tom DeLay decides not to seek re-election to Congress, making the announcement via audiotape from a cave somewhere in Pakistan. Republican leaders express relief over DeLay's decision and issue a statement pledging that there will be "no more Republican scandals, unless somebody finds out about Mark Foley."
Meanwhile, in the Middle East, tension mounts still higher when Iranian president Mahmoud Ahmadinejad announces that Iran has successfully produced enriched uranium, although he claims that his nation plans to use it only for peaceful purposes "such as cooking." In Iraq, there is good news and bad news for the Bush administration. The good news is that rival Iraqi leaders have finally agreed on a new prime minister. The bad news is that it is Nancy Pelosi.
Domestically, the national debate over illegal immigration heats up as thousands of demonstrators take to the streets of major U.S. cities, thus causing a total shutdown of Paris. Meanwhile, the Mexican government, in what is widely viewed as a deliberate provocation, convenes in Milwaukee. But the big story is the price of gasoline, which continues its relentless climb toward an unprecedented $3 a gallon. Responding quickly, Congress, in a rare display of decisive bipartisan action, takes a recess, with both sides promising to resume bickering the instant they get back.
Speaking of your tax dollars at work, in...
MAY
.. . the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, which has a budget of over $3 billion, predicts that the 2006 hurricane season will be worse than usual. This item will seem funnier later in the year. In related news, the voters of New Orleans reelect Ray Nagin as mayor, proving that Hurricane Katrina killed far more brain cells than was previously believed.
On the terrorism front, the Bush administration comes under heavy criticism following press reports that the National Security Agency has been collecting telephone records of millions of Americans. Responding to the outcry, President Bush assures the nation that "the government is not collecting personal information on any individual citizen," adding, "Warren H. Glompett of Boston, call your wife back immediately because your dog has eaten your entire Viagra supply."
In another controversial move, the president announces that he will use National Guard troops to stop illegal immigration. The initial troops are assigned to guard the border between Mexico and Arizona, with California, New Mexico, and Texas being covered by Dick Cheney.
In Houston, former Enron executives Kenneth Lay and Jeffrey Skilling are convicted of fraud by a federal jury, which apparently is not persuaded by the defense's claim that Skilling and Lay could not have been responsible for the collapse of the $100 billion corporation because they were, quote, "both getting haircuts."
True fact: After the verdict, Lay says, "We believe that God, in fact, is in control."
Another true fact: Less than two months later, Lay will die of heart failure.

</file>

<file= AmE06_R04>

IT IS NEVER A HAPPY MOMENT in the life of a struggling artist when some fresh assault on his fragile dignity compels him finally and painfully to concede that Failure has lost its charm. He has up until this point soldiered bravely along, managing to persuade himself that there's something not merely noble but downright jolly about Struggle, about demeaning temp jobs, day-old baked goods, and pitchers of beer nursed like dying pets into the night. He would, of course, grant that la vie Bohème with its myriad deprivations and anxieties was not an unalloyed delight. But whenever its indignities rankled unduly he could console himself with his certainty that Bohemia was not, after all, his permanent address. Oh, no. His present charmingly scruffy existence was a mere preamble to his real life, a larval stage from which he would soon gloriously emerge into the sunshine of success. Its small embarrassments were, if anything, to be prized, not only for their lessons in humility but for the many droll, self-deprecatory anecdotes they would later provide, stories he'd polish and trot out for parties, interviews, and - why be pessimistic? - talk shows.
Then one day he is faced with some final affront, minor perhaps, but so symbolically freighted as to land on him with the force of an inadequately cabled Steinway. He reels, stunned, and dark speculations, long and successfully repressed, rampage through his mind. For the first time he allows himself to wonder if his life twenty years hence will be any different than his present existence. "Of course it will be different," coos the voice in his head. "You'll be old."
From this icy thought a short road leads to panic, and from panic to despair, self-pity, desperation, and, finally, Los Angeles.

MY OWN RUDE EPIPHANY came a year ago last fall shortly after the closing ofThree to Tango, a larky little comedy I'd written with my good friend and collaborator Claire Simmons. The play had been enthusiastically received in a series of readings, stirring a cautious hope in Claire's heart and extravagant optimism in my own. The production, alas, was doomed from the start, owing chiefly to our producer's decision to present the show in a small basement playhouse that was as damp as Atlantis and harder to find. We tried to persuade him that the show might fare better in a space that felt more like a theater and less like a hideout, but he felt confident that people would find us. People did not. We opened in mid-September and by month's end the play had closed and I was back to my day job, pounding the pavement as an outdoor messenger for the Jackrabbit Courier Service.
You might suppose this experience would have left me a broken and bitter man, but on the day in question my mood was actually pretty chipper. The autumn weather was brisk and lovely. The job, though lacking a certain prestige, allowed me to write much of the day, and I'd just gotten an idea for a new comedy. Best of all, my chum Gilbert, whose consoling presence I'd sorely missed during the deathwatch for my play, was due to return soon from Los Angeles. I'd been slightly miffed at his desertion but couldn't really blame him. His mother, Maddie, had recently snagged herself a rich Hollywood mogul, and Gilbert - who if mooching were an Olympic sport would have his picture on Wheaties boxes - could not resist flying west to bond with the lovebirds poolside. I looked forward to hearing of his romantic exploits, which, if the hints in his e-mails were any indication, would give new life to the phrase "Westward Ho." So buoyant in fact was my mood that I was even coping stoically with the news that a musical penned by the loathsome Marlowe Heppenstall, my nemesis since high school, had opened to unfathomably kind reviews and was looking like a major hit.
By late afternoon the benevolent sunshine had given way to darker skies and a sudden cloudburst forced me to sprint the six blocks to my final destination, a Park Avenue law office. I raced into the building, ascended to the seventeenth floor, and entered a spacious foyer, every mahogany-paneled inch of which bespoke the age and prosperity of the firm. The prim, bespectacled woman at the desk glanced up and fixed me with that look of quizzical disdain legal receptionists have long reserved for dampened members of the messenger class.
I removed from my satchel an envelope addressed to a Mr. Charles O'Donnell and marked PERSONAL. I presented this to the human pince-nez, who gazed right past me and said, "Mr. O'Donnell, this just came for you."
I turned. Walking toward us was an extremely handsome blond fellow about my age, dressed in a flawlessly tailored charcoal pinstriped suit. He had wonderfully broad shoulders though I couldn't say if this was the result of weight training or if it was workout enough just lifting the massive Rolex and chunky gold cuff links that sparkled on his tanned wrists.
Reminding myself, as I need to at such moments, that this was not a movie and the fellow could see me, I tried not to stare too blatantly as I handed him the envelope. He took it, barely glancing at me, then did a little double take as though he recognized me but wasn't sure where from. He suddenly looked familiar to me as well. I wondered if we'd shared some fleeting romantic liaison but immediately dismissed this notion as it hinged on the ludicrous premise that I could have slept with such a man then forgotten him. I knew that if we'd dallied even once ten years ago, I'd still be mooning over him and writing maudlin sonnets starting "If love, thou wouldst but phone me once again."
His puzzled look morphed suddenly into a smile of delighted surprise.
"Phil?" he said. "Phil Cavanaugh?"
Light dawned.
"Oh my God! Chuck O'Donnell! How the hell are you?"
"I don't believe this. It's so great to see you!"
We'd been friends back in high school, though only briefly as we'd moved in very different circles. Chuck had been the brightest member of the football-playing, cheerleader-groping set, while I had been a leading light of the sarcastic, underwear-ad-ogling theater crowd. He'd crossed lines once, gamely agreeing to play the braggart warrior Miles Gloriosus in A Funny Thing Happened on the Way to the Forum when our own group failed to produce a single nonrisible candidate for the role.
I scrutinized his face, which seemed different, improved in some way.
"You're looking at my nose, right?" he said with a laugh. "I broke it boxing a few times. They kept having to reset it."
"Ah," I said, wondering what it must be like to live so charmed a life that facial injuries only made you handsomer.
"Look at you." I grinned. "Mr. Big Shot Lawyer."
"Not so big, trust me. How 'bout you? Still writing plays?"
"Just did one."
"That's great! How'd it go?"
"Really well," I said. "Big hit."
It was the sort of fib I might have gotten away with had we met at a cocktail party and I was wearing the secondhand yet stylish jacket Gilbert calls my Salvation Armani. The problem was we weren't at a cocktail party. We were in the stately foyer of his white-shoe law firm and I was wearing faded jeans, waterlogged Nikes, and a gray polo shirt adorned with my company's logo, a zealous, bucktoothed rabbit in a mauve tracksuit. In short, I was in no position to swank.
Charlie, bless him, managed to say "Great" without a trace of irony, but the receptionist, who'd never liked me, didn't even try to keep her eyebrows in neutral. Mortified, I averted my gaze, which landed on the foyer's large gilt mirror.
I spoke earlier of moments that carry a great symbolic weight. This was unquestionably such a moment. There we stood, Charlie looking straight out of a Barneys catalog and I in my soggy ensemble from the Grapes of Wrath Collection. So perfectly did we exemplify our divergent fortunes that we might have been allegorical figures from some medieval morality play, with Charlie starring as Diligence Rewarded and self in the cameo role of Dashed Hopes.
"So," said Charlie as the blood drained from my face, "been in New York long?"
"Since school," I mumbled, searching for a way to say that, while I was enjoying our chat, I should really get going as I'd be needing to burst into tears soon. The receptionist, more eager to rescue Charlie than me, reminded him of an impending meeting.
"Gotta run. But hey, let me know next time you've got a show on."
"You bet."
"My wife loves the theater. In fact that's what you just brought me - tickets for this new musical. Friend of mine couldn't use 'em."
"Ah."
"Maybe you've heard of it?" he said, then smacked his forehead comically. "What am I saying? Of course you have. It's by Marlowe - you know, Marlowe Heppenstall from school? Are you two still in touch?"

WHEN SUCH MOMENTS BEFALL US, we have, of course, two options. We can say "Fiddle-dee-dee" and shrug it off or we can surrender entirely to self-lacerating despair. I chose the latter course and, after walking sixty blocks in the rain to my small, unkempt apartment, settled into a chair with a nice view of the air shaft to contemplate my future.
It did not look bright.
I was twenty-nine. This meant I was still technically a young man, though no longeryoung young, thirty being, as everyone under it knows, the middle age of youth. True middle age was still reasonably distant, though not, as it had once been, unimaginably so.
My career to date had consisted of a frustrating series of near misses. While I'd never had any trouble imagining the ultimate breakthrough, it was now equally easy to picture this dispiriting pattern repeating itself till I woke one day to find I'd become that most poignant figure the theater has to offer, the Struggling Old Playwright.
I'd met my share of them, bloated pasty fellows, doggedly upbeat or surly and embittered, haunting the workshops and readings where their younger brethren gathered. I'd seen them in theater-district bars, cadging drinks while boasting of their latest effort, often a retooling of some earlier work culled from the trunk and reread with a parent's myopic affection.
"Amazing how well it holds up! Why it's more timely now than when I wrote it. Can't believe Playwrights passed on it back then. Just as well though since Streep was too young at the time to play Fiona and she'd be perfect now. Damn, left my wallet home."
There was one especially Falstaffian old gasbag whom Gilbert and I had often observed in our favorite watering hole. Not knowing his name, we'd christened him Milo. In my imagination, which had grown uncontrollably morbid, I pictured him twenty years from now, older, fatter, but still warming the same bar stool. I watched him turn toward the bar's entrance, his blubbery lips parting in a smile of welcome. He patted the stool next to his with a nicotine-stained hand and bid the weary newcomer welcome.
"Philip! We've been wondering where you were. Wouldn't be a proper Friday without you. Sorry I missed your birthday bash at the Ground Round. Any word from MTC on the new one? . . . The philistines! . . . How awkwardly you're holding your glass - the old carpal tunnel acting up again? Well then, here's a bug I'll just put in your ear - you tell Blue Cross they can stuff their job, then come join me behind the necktie counter at Saks! What fun we'll have, discussing our plays and ogling the young ones! I tell you, Philip, the days just fly by!"
This ghastly reverie was mercifully interrupted by the shrill buzz of my intercom. I shambled to the door and asked who it was.

</file>

<file= AmE06_R05>

I realize that most people skip the introduction and the acknowledgments. If you are one of these people, then you're not even reading this. But if you are, I want to share with you the alternative titles I had for this book.
I was told by my editor that titles sell books, so the first title I proposed was A Slimmer You in Three Weeks. That would've been an instant best seller because diet books sell like crazy. But my publisher's weak-kneed lawyers refused to approve the title because there were no diet tips in my book.
My next title was Finding Mr. Right, because dating books are also very popular. Again, the attorneys nixed this idea, this time on the grounds that the book contained no dating tips. The attorneys suggested that I find something related to comedy in some way since I am a comedian.
I came up with The Fat Lady in the Pink Dress Wants a White Wine. This comes from the parties we've had at our house when my kids helped serve the grown-ups. I'd ask my son to go and see what Mrs. Petersen would like to drink. He'd come back and say, "The fat lady in the pink dress wants a white wine."
Besides being a catchy phrase, I thought this would make a nice title for a book written by a comedian. When you mature, you realize you can't say something like that in polite company. But comedians don't mature. For some reason, comedians are still children. The social skills somehow never reach us, so we say exactly what we think without weighing the results. But as a title, it sounded too much like a book written by a bartender.
You Didn't Let Me Finish was a candidate because it neatly sums up Hollywood. I first heard the phrase in a story about Harry Crane, a comedy writer who worked for Dean Martin. Harry was sent by Greg Garrison, who produced The Dean Martin Show, to check out a lounge singer that they were thinking of booking on the show. The singer, it turned out, was Mama Cass, back when she was known as Cass Elliot.
Harry completed the trip and reported back to Garrison: "This immense woman walks out on the stage in a muumuu and it's stained," he said. "It's not even clean. She had perspiration dripping down both armpits, and she cannot sing. She can't carry a note."
Garrison interrupted, "Dean loves her." To which Crane said, "You didn't let me finish."
Deciding that was too Hollywood, I toyed with Which One Would You Like to Hear Again? This phrase was my sole line of defense as a naïve and neophyte stand-up.
It was my very first stand-up gig, and I was the opening act at the Tidelands Motor Inn in Houston. I performed the only three routines I had, "Abe Lincoln vs. Madison Avenue," "The Driving Instructor," and "The Cruise of the U.S.S. Codfish. " The audience was particularly responsive one night, and they gave me a lengthy applause. As I left the stage, I walked by the maître d'.
"Go back out there. They want to hear more," he said.
"That's all I have," I explained.
I reluctantly walked back onstage. The applause died down, and I asked them, "Which one would you like to hear again?"
In considering phrases that have stuck with me over the years, I recalled a story that Art Linkletter used to tell in his routine on how kids say the darnedest things. In one bit, there was a boy who was off by himself brooding in a corner while all the other kids were laughing and enjoying themselves. Art went over to the boy and attempted to comfort him.
"Is something wrong?" Art asked.
"Yeah, my dog died this week," the boy said.
"Well," Art said, "your dog went to heaven and when you go to heaven you will see your dog again so don't be too unhappy."
The boy looked at Art quizzically. "What does God want with a dead dog?" Another example of the logic of children.
And then there's the title I settled on: I Shouldn't Even Be Doing This!
That's from a gag about a guy who is having an affair with his boss's wife. They are making mad, passionate love, and she says, "Kiss me! Kiss me!"
He looks at her very seriously and replies, "I shouldn't even be doing this!"
That disproportionate side of life ties nicely to my career. I became a comedian by way of accounting. I recorded several comedy albums, three with The Button-Down Mind in the title. I starred in several television series, all of which have my name in the title: The Bob Newhart Show, The Bob Newhart Show (again), Newhart, Bob, and George and Leo (a bit of a stretch but it uses my given name, George Robert Newhart). I acted in several movies that didn't have my name in the title, including Hell Is for Heroes, Catch-22, and Elf, and I guest starred on ER and Desperate Housewives. All the while, I've been married to the same woman for forty-three years, had four children, played countless rounds of golf, and met some very interesting people.
However, it didn't take me long to realize that I couldn't write a traditional memoir. A memoir is a weighty tome. Former presidents and the Marquis de Sade write memoirs; Bob Newhart doesn't write a memoir. So I proposed that we call it a roman à clef and leave it at that. Again, my weak-kneed lawyers objected.
But the biggest problem of all came when I was halfway finished with the book. I began to get nervous because deep in the process of writing a book about myself, I didn't have one of the primary ingredients. I wasn't feeling cathartic. I've read enough of these kinds of books and seen enough authors promote them on talk shows to know that they are always cathartic. So I sent the book to a specialist in recognizing catharsis and asked him if what he read could be considered cathartic.
"No, it's self-pity," he said. "But I like the title."
CHAPTER ONE
Comedians See Life Through a Different Lens
Most comedians are committable. People say I'm the most normal of all comedians - and I'm still certifiable.
Larry Gelbart once said that comedians look at life through a different lens. Comedians by nature are observers of people. Even if a comedian is on vacation and he sees something funny on the beach, he'll say to himself, "I have to remember that because I may need it someday."
When I was a child, I remember watching a garbage truck with the name "Neal Norlag" on the side. Subconsciously, I filed the name away for later use. Remember Neal Norlag.
Comedians are innately programmed to pick up oddities like mispronounced words, upside-down books on a shelf, and generally undetectable mistakes in everyday life.
Recently, for instance, I've noticed on the cable news channels that the guy who writes the news crawl along the bottom of the screen can't type. Clearly, there is no one watching him and saying, "Gary, what's wrong with you?"
These aren't glaring errors, but they certainly stand out to me. One day last summer, a typically misspelled news bulletin announced: "In the Mideast, peace talks are underway between the Palestinians and the Israelis and there is the possibility that Egypt may play a roll" - as opposed to a "role."
Stranger still, I came across a solemn news item in the newspaper about an assassination in Afghanistan. A minister was killed. I read further. It turned out that he was the minister of tourism. Now, how busy can Afghanistan's minister of tourism possibly be? You don't picture a young honeymooning couple saying, "Enough of the bickering. Let's flip a coin: It's Paris or Kabul."
Maybe I am the only one who notices.
I think it was Jack Benny who once said, "A comic says funny things, but a comedian says things funny." I guess I'd fall into that latter grouping.
•
Many comedians would probably agree that you start off doing someone else while your own voice evolves. You start out as an imitator because hiding behind success is easier than finding it. Richard Pryor started out doing Bill Cosby and then came into his own. For me, the models were Mike and Elaine, Bob and Ray, and, of course, Benny.
When I first performed, I didn't study all the working comedians and say, "There is nobody stammering out there....What a great opportunity." In interviews throughout my career, I've often been asked if my stammer was natural. My stock response: "Have you been listening to my answers?"
Truly, that's...the...way I talk.
When I was doing The Bob Newhart Show, one of the producers pulled me aside and said that the shows were running a little long. He wondered if I could cut down the time of my speeches by reducing my stammering. "No," I told him. "That stammer bought me a house in Beverly Hills."
Stammering is different than stuttering. Stutterers have trouble with the letters, while stammerers trip over entire parts of a sentence. We stammerers generally think of ourselves as very bright. My own private theory is that stammerers have so many ideas swirling around their brains at once that they can't get them all out, though I haven't found any scientific evidence to back that up.
There are exceptions to the imitation rule. I remember watching a show on TV from the Improv in New York one night in the eighties. One young comedian after another came onstage. I'd say to myself, "Okay, he's doing Seinfeld. He's doing Benny." Then Norm MacDonald appeared. He wasn't doing anyone. He was doing himself, which made him stand out.
Norm later wrote a sketch for me when I hosted Saturday Night Live. I played a supervisor at the post office who had to discipline a disgruntled worker regarding his appearance. Gingerly I instructed Norm's beatnik character: "There is a uniform that you have to wear. Again, let me assure you that this is coming from the guys upstairs and I'm just relaying it to you. It's strictly procedure. I personally have nothing against combat fatigues, but it's just that the guys upstairs..."
Long before I started performing my own routines onstage, I loved watching comedians on television. I'd hear a joke and then ask myself why it got a laugh. What made it work? Why did he choose that particular word? In the fifties, I watched George Gobel. He wasn't doing "Take My Wife, Please." He would just tell these neat little stories, like about how his wife, spooky ole Alice, came up to him the other day. It was a softer, less aggressive brand of comedy. Later I saw Bob and Ray performing similar routines. I thought to myself, you can be successful without having to be as broad as some of the comedians were in the early years.
That was the first inkling I had that maybe I could make it as a comedic storyteller.
But it wasn't all positive reinforcement. Early in my career, I saw Jonathan Winters perform in a comedy club in Chicago. He was hilarious. Each joke was funnier than the one before it. I was totally discouraged. I thought to myself, why bother? There's no way you can be as funny as Jonathan Winters.
I gathered my wits and decided that being No. 2 wouldn't be so bad.
The greatest comedian I've ever seen is Jack Benny. He wasn't afraid of the silences. Once Benny was following the Will Maston Trio with Sammy Davis Jr. They absolutely killed. The audience was still applauding for them when Benny walked onstage. He complimented them and then started his routine.
"In the afternoon, I like to have some tea. I go in the coffee shop, around four o'clock or four-fifteen." Pause. "More like four-thirty." (Terrifically unnecessary information, by the way.) Pause.

</file>

<file= AmE06_R06>

OKAY, I'M BACK. IT'S ALL OVER. I TOOK A POWDER AGAIN for a couple of weeks and went back to that farmhouse in Indiana. The wistful widow was remarried by this time to a stereopticon salesman from Wagon Gap named Chaney (no relation, different spelling). He was pretty amiable about the whole thing - consider- ing - and they put me up in the spare till the spell passed. (Turns out they both like puns well enough, but can't abide limericks.) We played cards together on the porch, of a night, and I stole a look or two, but what the hay. Still makes a heckuva cherry pie, she does. As for pitching woo, well, I couldn't - and wouldn't - say.
LET'S AWAY. IT TURNS OUT THERE REALLY IS A MOVIE called Debbie Does Dallas II, and let me just say I know that for a fact. How? And how. That is, here's how.
Like most things in life, pornography can be used to one extreme or another, and I don't believe either one is healthy. Five percent of American men have probably never seen naked pictures at all, not even once; another five percent probably do nothing but look at it twenty-four hours a day, seven days a week. I think both of these groups are very likely an inch away from going on a three-state murder spree.
The rest of us are in the middle. One of the ways men respond to women is visually, in case you hadn't noticed, and that's, of course, what porn is.
So far as I can tell, the first thing people did when photography was invented was take a picture of Lincoln. The second thing, right behind it (so to speak), was to think, "Say, I wonder if Miss Brightenbecker over at the Cattlemen's Association would let me take a few shots of her without the bustle?" They probably wondered whether it would even print out on the paper, as if the chemicals might make a value judgment - the way some people used to think the sky would explode if a plane broke the sound barrier.
Well, Miss Brightenbecker had no objections, and the sky didn't explode, and here we are. Like all of us, though, every time I pass a Calvin Klein billboard with the kids in the car, I wonder if our cul- ture has gone too far. There are three possibilities: we haven't gone too far; everything's about the same; we've gone way, way too far.
My wife was talking about Internet porn at work with friends, and she said it made her angry, and that our kids were never going to have the Internet in their bedrooms. And one of the guys laughed and said, "Oh, you probably don't even want them to see Playboy." And she said, "No, that's exactly wrong. Playboy is fine with me. I expect them to see it. I want them to see it. In fact, I expect them to hide it. That's in the normal range. But the Internet is too much; it's constant, it's far more graphic, they can get into a bad habit, and, by the way, that's how predators find them."
I agreed with her so much when she told me, I turned it right off.
Kidding. But I'm actually glad I know almost nothing about the Internet. In case you think I'm lying, I sent the first three drafts of this book to the publisher by hand - hard copies made on a machine and FedExed at the Kinko's on Laurel Canyon and Ventura. I can write on the computer, but I use it like a typewriter, indenting and paging manually, without any interference from that snotty software. Each time I called the publisher in New York to say I was sending something, and that it should be there in a few days, Cal Morgan, my editor, gently said, "You know, Larry, it's also possible to e-mail it. Might be easier for both of us." After the first few long silences, he stopped asking.
But my wife and I agree completely on this one. It's one thing for a thirteen-year-old to have a tattered Playboy in his night table drawer under an old math workbook, and it'll make me smile when I find one and realize ours have gone from "Yuchhh" to "Oooh . . ." (I had one that Larry Fink lifted from his dad and gave to me when we were twelve; I wish I still had it today. You know, for old times' sake.) But the Internet is too much, too fast, and has no limits.
The point is, though, I've seen magazines plenty of times. I'm no prude - in fact, just the opposite. It's like fistfights at a hockey game. We think they're an outrage, and they are, but as soon as one breaks out we all leap up laughing and say, "Ooh, look, a fight!" If someone walked into the office right now with naked pictures of a woman, I would look at them like any other guy. In fact, let's just wait a second and see if that happens. All right, it didn't. One more minute. No. Huh. Typical: never around when you need 'em.
It's ironic that what's not shown about a woman is often sexier than what is shown. Especially so the wilder they get. Leno used to do a bit in his act about the more graphic ones: "A friend of mine is a gynecologist, and I showed him a picture from Hustler, and he looked at it and said, 'Gee, I have no idea what that is.' "
I suppose, like all things in life, it would be the images and light- ing and fashions of my youth I'd find most appealing in a centerfold. I guess I really do wish I had the one Larry Fink gave me.
The thing is, I could never buy one in public. Not then, not now. I could never just walk into a store and get one. Never.
Well, that's not completely true, because I did. Twice. Both times I was drenched with sweat, and not from the pictures.
THE FIRST TIME WAS FOURTEEN YEARS AGO. THIS WAS before I was married, although I'm not sure why I added that.
I had done an interview with Penthouse. Not one of the big interviews, but one of the single-page question-and-answer things they used to do with comics and actors and sports guys. I was on the road, in a hotel, and my agent called and said, "Hey, it just came out, and you're in it. It's great - go get one." I was all excited, so I went downstairs to the gift shop.
I went to the magazine section in the back. There they were, sev- eral bundles of the new issue still tied in their yellow plastic bands, and one stack, loose, just waiting for me. I'd been looking forward to this for a long time. So I picked up two copies - my folks were still alive, and I was going to get one for them - and turned to the counter.
And stopped dead. And thought, "Oh, no. How am I going to do this?" There was a Little Old Ladies with White Hair and Spectacles convention in the hotel - or at least it suddenly seemed that way, since five or six of them were milling around the gift shop like guards at a bingo tournament. Just as bad, or worse, the clerk at the register was a young woman. "Stop it," I thought. "Don't be an idiot. Everyone buys these things; it's no big deal. Besides, you have a fabulous reason. You're in it. You're in the magazine, and you want to see how it came out. Just walk up and buy it, and stop being stu- pid. There's nothing wrong with buying a Penthouse anyway."
All of this is true, but it didn't matter. I turned around, put them back on the stack, and walked out of the shop, head down, very, very fast.
Halfway through the lobby I stopped again. "Oh, you really are nuts," I thought. "You're in the magazine, for crying out loud. And even if you weren't, who cares? Just go get it."
But I tried again, couldn't, and walked back out. This time I stood at the entrance and waited for the other customers to leave. It took a while, and I couldn't have looked more suspicious if I were a drug dealer hanging around a junior high. The place finally cleared out and I went back inside, scratching the right side of my face as I passed the clerk, went to the back, picked it up again (just one this time; let my parents get their own), got to the counter, put it down, looked up, and immediately burst open like a pomegranate.
"I'm in it," I said. "I swear, I'm in it, they do interviews with comics, and I'm a comic, and I'm here working . . . not here, there's a club in town . . . well, not in town, it's more like on the perimeter. To be honest, I don't know where it is, they just pick me up, but I'm buying this to read the interview. You want to see it? I'm sorry, I don't know what page it is, and you don't need to see. I'll probably throw it out after the interview. If you want, I'll bring it back, and you can sell it again. Sorry, forget that. You know what? I don't need the change. You keep it, or give it away. Either way, I'll just be going now."
Naturally, at this point, she finally looked up for the first time and took a good, long look at me, because I was acting like a suicide bomber.
I still have that magazine in my dresser drawer at the house. I haven't looked at it in a while, but I might again. If I do, I don't think it'll be for the interview.
THE SECOND TIME WAS TWO YEARS AGO, AS I WAS ON MY way to work. I have an office for writing, and stopped off at a 7-Eleven on the way for a cup of coffee. I had just dropped the kids at school, and it was early. As I filled the cup and put the lid on, I noticed several things in the store at the same time, in the tiniest fraction of a second.
Two house painters had just bought a box of donuts for break- fast, and they were the only ones in the store. The clerk, a young girl, gave them their change and spoke to them in Spanish. When they left, the store was empty. Empty.
I walked up to the counter, put the coffee down, took out my wallet . . . and felt my heart starting to thump: There was a rack of Playboys behind the counter. (A rack of Playboys? What an etymo- logical coincidence. You might even say it was a rack of racks. I'm not saying you should, but you could. In fact, when the store was first being built, and they were putting those shelves in, before even one magazine was on display, you could've run inside and yelled, "Hey, nice rack.")
The point is, the store was empty, and a rack of Playboys was hanging there. I mean, stacked there. Sitting on - on top of -  pressed against - oh, forget it. They were there, okay? And the clerk had spoken Spanish. Empty store, Playboy, Spanish! What a parley! Who could pass this up? I looked around one more time, shrugged, and thought, "I'll never have a chance like this again." So as she tapped in the price of the coffee, I said as evenly as I could, "And do me a favor, please, let me have a copy of Playboy." She turned word- lessly, no reaction, picked one up, and placed it on the counter.
It worked. Unbelievable!

</file>

<file= AmE06_R07>

Nolan pulls into the parking garage, braced for the Rican attendant with the cojones big enough to make a point of wondering what this rusted hunk of Chevy pickup junk is doing in Jag-u-ar City. But the ticket-spitting machine doesn't much care what Nolan's driving. It lifts its arm, like a benediction, like the hand of God dividing the Red Sea. Nolan passes a dozen empty spots and drives up to the top level, where he turns in beside a dusty van that hasn't been anywhere lately. He grabs his duffel bag, jumps out, inhales, filling his lungs with damp cement-y air. So far, so good, he likes the garage. He wishes he could stay here. He finds the stairwell where he would hide were he planning a mugging, corkscrews down five flights of stairs, and plunges into the honking inferno of midafternoon Times Square. 

He's never seen it this bad. A giant mosh pit with cars. Just walking demands concentration, like driving in heavy traffic. He remembers the old Times Square on those righteous long-ago weekends when he and his high school friends took the bus into the city to get hammered and eyeball the hookers. He's read about the new Disneyfied theme park Times Squareland, but that's way more complicated than what he needs to deal with right now, which is navigating without plowing into some little old lady. A fuzzball of pure pressure expands inside his chest, stoked by patches of soggy shirt, clinging to his rib cage. 

It's eighty, maybe eighty-five, and he's the only guy in New York wearing a long-sleeved jersey. All the white men seem to be running personal air conditioners inside their fancy Italian suits, unlike the blacks and Latinos, who have already soaked through their T-shirts. What does that make Nolan? The only white guy sweating. The only human of any kind gagging from exhaust fumes. While Nolan's been off in the boondocks with his friends and their Aryan Homeland wet dream, an alien life-form has evolved in the nation's cities, a hybrid species bred to survive on dog piss and carbon monoxide. Nolan needs to stop thinking that way. Attitude is crucial. 

Last night, at his cousin Raymond's, he'd watched the TV weatherchipmunk chirping about the heat wave, so unseasonable for April, reassuring local viewers with his records and statistics lest anyone think: Look out, global warming, the world is ending right now. Why is everyone so surprised that the planet's cutting them loose? Ecological Armageddon was just what the doctor ordered to take Nolan's mind off his own problems as he'd faced the dark hours ahead until it was time to get up and borrow Cousin Raymond's truck, his money and pills, and vanish into the ozone. Nolan's hardly slept for two weeks, ever since he decided to turn. Two Xanax did nothing to stop his lab-rat brain from racing from one micro-detail to another. 

Like, for example, sleeve length. Should he hide the tattoos? Or just wear a T-shirt and let themdo the talking? If one picture's worth a thousand words, that's the first two thousand right there, two thousand minus the hi howareya nicetameetcha. Which was one reason to get the tats: cut through a load of hot air. On the other hand, strolling into the office of World Brotherhood Watch with Waffen-SS bolts on one bicep and a death's-head on the other might make it harder for Nolan to get his point across -- let's say, if the people he's talking to are hiding under their desks. Nolan wouldn't blame them. It hasn't been all that long since that lone-wolf lunatic in L.A. shot up the Jewish temple preschool. 

In any case, it's going to be tough, explaining what he's doing at Brotherhood Watch, especially since Nolan himself isn't exactly sure. There are some . . . practical issues involved with stealing Raymond's truck plus the fifteen hundred bucks that, if you want to be literal, belongs to the Aryan Resistance Movement. But there's more to it than that. If it were just a question of disappearing and starting over, Nolan could have some fun. Sell SUVs in Palm Springs, deal blackjack in Las Vegas. Go to Disney World, put on a Goofy suit, let toddlers fuck with his head. 

What he'd really like to do is give every man, woman, and child in the world the exact same hit of Ecstasy, the same tiny candy, pink as a kitten's tongue, that managed to turn his head around, or more precisely, to give his head a little -- well, a fairly big -- push in the direction it was already headed. But that's not going to happen, free Ex for the human race, so maybe the next best thing is to help other people find a more gradual route to the place where the Ex took Nolan. 

Meanwhile, he knows that thinking like this will only get in his way. He'll stay cooler if he convinces himself that he's just interviewing for a job. 

Has it only been two weeks since Nolan finally made up his mind? A long two weeks of trying to figure it out, even -- especially -- after he knew how he was going to do it. 

No one promised it would be easy. But Nolan has prepared. He's read up, starting with two books by Meyer Maslow, the founder and current head of the World Brotherhood Watch Foundation. He actually went out and ordered them through the bookstore in the mall. The first book, The Kindness of Strangers -- Maslow's tribute to the people who saved his life when he was on the run from the Nazis -- was what made Nolan begin to think that maybe his plan could work. 

For balance, Nolan has also been reading The Way of the Warrior, a paperback he took from the tire shop, borrowed from the backseat of a Ford Expedition some yuppie brought in for the Firestone recall. Nolan knows the book's a fortune cookie for bond traders with samurai 

delusions, but still, it's filled with ancient principles of diplomacy 

and war that help Nolan untangle the knots into which his thoughts can get snarled. For example,The Way of the Warrior says: Planning is key. Planning and total freedom to change the Warrior's plan. The book suggested that Nolan wait till afternoon. The Warrior knows that the enemy is best approached after lunch. So Nolan has spent hours cruising the suburbs, killing time. 

Driving into the city, Nolan went over the plan. Park truck. Find Fifty-first Street. Find building. Enter lobby. Locate elevator. Push button. Board elevator. Hold breath. Assume that every passenger carries a different contagious disease. 

The plan is working better than planned. The elevator is empty. He finds 19, pushes the button, leans against the wall. Just before the doors close, a dwarf hops into the car. Young, tan, streaky surfer hair, oddly handsome for a guy with a mashed-in pumpkin head. A blindingly bright white T-shirt shows off his gym-buffed chest. Great, thinks Nolan. My luck. Our man is being tested. The old Nolan would have been pissed, forced to ride up nineteen floors with a mutant. The newly reconstructed Nolan wills himself to imagine what the short dude went through on his first day of kindergarten. Or asking a girl to the prom. Nolan had a hard enough time, and he's on the tall side. 

The trouble with changing your attitude is that the old one doesn't disappear. It hides in the creases of your brain, sending out faint signals. He can hear what Raymond would have said about the elevator dwarf. The hungriest chromosome is the broken one. The weak and the damaged will multiply and conquer the earth like a virus. Nolan remembers one of those boozy, late-night "discussions" with Raymond and his friends. One guy said that people used to think dwarfs had magical powers, which, they all agreed, just went to show how stupid people are. Nolan never bought it. He never believed that freaks were having lots of sex and millions of freaky children. 

The elevator seems to have stopped. Is this Nolan's floor? 

"Nineteen," says the mind-reading dwarf. He got on after Nolan. He couldn't have seen him hit the button. What if Work-Out Dwarf is a magical being? And what's with the knowing smile? Maybe he works in the building and sees a thousand guys like Nolan, every week some Nazi punk turns and heads for Brotherhood Watch. That worm-colored geek with the shiny head? Send the guy up to nineteen. Nolan has to remind himself that he's dressed in such a way that there's nothing to distinguish him from your normal, fashionably bald dude in jeans and a long-sleeved shirt. 

The elevator releases Nolan into a carpeted hall paneled in gleaming wood. Behind the reception desk sits a beautiful Asian chick in stylish black ninja pajamas. How classy, how predictable for a famous human rights outfit to hire PC Dragon Lady to guard the front door. Nolan recalls a Hong Kong film where the secretary rockets up from her desk and does triple flips, slinging nunchaks around the office. He wishes he'd brought six other guys. He wishes his tattoos showed. 

In the end, what he can't hide is enough to give Suzie Wong the willies. The duffel bag is a problem, as he knew it would be. Of course, it would have been smoother if he could have left it somewhere. As Nunchak Girl eyes the bag, Nolan watches a little fight-or-flight thing take place in her face, until her receptionist training wins out over her basic human instinct not to be anywherenear him. Nolan has the feeling she's got one finger on the panic button. Just in case. 

"May I help you?" 

"I'd like to see Mr. Maslow. Uh, Dr. Maslow. Whatever." 

"Do you have an appointment?" 

He doesn't know what the gentleman's called. Does it sound like he has an appointment? 

"No," says Nolan. "I need to talk to him." So do millionaires. Politicians. Nolan can expect about five more seconds of Miss Yin Yang's attention. He says, "I've got some information I think he might want to have. I guess you know what ARM is, right? The American Rights Movement?" 

A definite yes from Ice Princess. Now she's really eyeing the duffel bag, obviously wondering if this is her time, if her bullet-riddled body will be all over tomorrow's front page. And is that a tinytwitch pulling her hand beneath the desk? Call security! Red alert! Hitler's in the building looking for Meyer Maslow! Nolan can't decide if he wants to pop her in the nose or fall on his knees and promise he won't hurt her. He follows her glance toward the duffel bag. 

"I'm in a kind of . . . transitional state," he says. "And if you're thinking what I think you're thinking . . ." He turns his palms outward and tries to smile. "I'm harmless. I promise. Unarmed. There's nothing in the bag but some books and clothes and dirty laundry." 

The receptionist's lip curls. She doesn't want to think about Nolan's dirty laundry. 

"I was in ARM for five years." Lie number one, and Nolan's only been here two minutes. So what. It's a detail. They can hash out the fine points later. 

"Congratulations." She gives him the freeze-out look she learned in Bitch Receptionist 101. She hesitates, thinks, thinks some more. Then she picks up the phone and keeps pushing the same button. Security isn't answering. So she's pretty much on her own. Is that fear on her face? Just a trace, and it's gone, either because she's a professional, a professional receptionist, or because she doesn't want to give Nolan the satisfaction. Or because he's charmed her. That's always a possibility. She listens, pushes another button, listens, then another. So the person about to deal with the fact of Nolan's existence is several rungs down the food chain here at World Brotherhood Watch.

</file>

<file= AmE06_R08>

What about a teakettle? What if the
spout opened and closed when the 
steam came out, so it would become a
mouth, and it could whistle pretty 
melodies, or do Shakespeare, or just
crack up with me? I could invent a 
teakettle that reads in Dad's voice, so
I could fall asleep, or maybe a set of 
kettles that sings the chorus of "Yellow
Submarine," which is a song by the 
Beatles, who I love, because entomology
is one of my raisons d'être, which 
is a French expression that I know.
Another good thing is that I could train 
my anus to talk when I farted. If I
wanted to be extremely hilarious, I'd
train it 
to say, "Wasn't me!" every time I made
an incredibly bad fart. And if I ever 
made an incredibly bad fart in the Hall
of Mirrors, which is in Versailles, 
which is outside of Paris, which is in
France, obviously, my anus would 
say, "Ce n'étais pas moi!"

What about little microphones? What if
everyone swallowed them, 
and they played the sounds of our hearts
through little speakers, which could 
be in the pouches of our overalls? When
you skateboarded down the street at 
night you could hear everyone's
heartbeat, and they could hear yours,
sort of 
like sonar. One weird thing is, I wonder
if everyone's hearts would start to 
beat at the same time, like how women
who live together have their 
menstrual periods at the same time,
which I know about, but don't really 
want to know about. That would be so
weird, except that the place in the 
hospital where babies are bornwould
sound like a crystal chandelier in a 
houseboat, because the babies wouldn't
have had time to match up their 
heartbeats yet. And at the finish line
at the end of the New York City 
Marathon it would sound like war.
And also, there are so many times when
you need to make a 
quick escape, but humans don't have
their own wings, or not yet, anyway, so 
what about a birdseed shirt?
Anyway.
My first jujitsu class was three and a
half months ago. Self-
defense was something that I was
extremely curious about, for obvious 
reasons, and Mom thought it would be
good for me to have a physical activity 
besides tambourining, so my first
jujitsu class was three and a half months 
ago. There were fourteen kids in the
class, and we all had on neat white 
robes. We practiced bowing, and then we
were all sitting down Native 
American style, and then Sensei Mark
asked me to go over to him. "Kick my 
privates," he told me. That made me feel
self-conscious. "Excusez-moi?" I 
told him. He spread his legs and told
me, "I want you to kick my privates as 
hard as you can." He put his hands at
his sides, and took a breath in, and 
closed his eyes, and that's how I knew
that actually he meant 
business. "Jose," I told him, and inside
I was thinking, What the? He told 
me, "Go on, guy. Destroy my privates."
"Destroy your privates?" With his 
eyes still closed he cracked up a lot
and said, "You couldn't destroy my 
privates if you tried. That's what's
going on here. This is a demonstration of 
the well-trained body's ability to
absorb a direct blow. Now destroy my 
privates." I told him, "I'm a pacifist,"
and since most people my age don't 
know what that means, I turned around
and told the others, "I don't think it's 
right to destroy people's privates.
Ever." Sensei Mark said, "Can I ask you 
something?" I turned back around and
told him, " 'Can I ask you something?' 
is asking me something." He said, "Do
you have dreams of becoming a 
jujitsu master?" "No," I told him, even
though I don't have dreams of running 
the family jewelry business anymore. He
said, "Do you want to know how a 
jujitsu student becomes a jujitsu
master?" "I want to know everything," I
told 
him, but that isn't true anymore either.
He told me, "A jujitsu student 
becomes a jujitsu master by destroying
his master's privates." I told 
him, "That's fascinating." My last
jujitsu class was three and a half months 
ago.
I desperately wish I had my tambourine
with me now, because 
even after everything I'm still wearing
heavy boots, and sometimes it helps to 
play a good beat. My most impressive
song that I can play on my tambourine 
is "The Flight of the Bumblebee," by
Nicolai Rimsky-Korsakov, which is also 
the ring tone I downloaded for the cell
phone I got after Dad died. It's pretty 
amazing that I can play "The Flight of
the Bumblebee," because you have to 
hit incredibly fast in parts, and that's
extremely hard for me, because I don't 
really have wrists yet. Ron offered to
buy me a five-piece drum set. Money 
can't buy me love, obviously, but I
asked if it would have Zildjian cymbals. He 
said, "Whatever you want," and then he
took my yo-yo off my desk and 
started to walk the dog with it. I know
he just wanted to be friendly, but it 
made me incredibly angry. "Yo-yo moi!" I
told him, grabbing it back. What I 
really wanted to tell him was "You're
not my dad, and you never will be."
Isn't it so weird how the number of
dead people is increasing even 
though the earth stays the same size, so
that one day there isn't going to be 
room to bury anyone anymore? For my
ninth birthday last year, Grandma 
gave me a subscription to National
Geographic, which she calls "the National 
Geographic." She also gave me a white
blazer, because I only wear white 
clothes, and it's too big to wear so it
will last me a long time. She also gave 
me Grandpa's camera, which I loved for
two reasons. I asked why he didn't 
take it with him when he left her. She
said, "Maybe he wanted you to have it." 
I said, "But I was negative-thirty years
old." She said, "Still." Anyway, the 
fascinating thing was that I read in
National Geographic that there are more 
people alive now than have died in all
of human history. In other words, if 
everyone wanted to play Hamlet at once,
they couldn't, because there aren't 
enough skulls!
So what about skyscrapers for dead
people that were built down? 
They could be underneath the skyscrapers
for living people that are built up. 
You could bury people one hundred floors
down, and a whole dead world 
could be underneath the living one.
Sometimes I think it would be weird if 
there were a skyscraper that moved up
and down while its elevator stayed in 
place. So if you wanted to go to the
ninety-fifth floor, you'd just press the 95 
button and the ninety-fifth floor would
come to you. Also, that could be 
extremely useful, because if you're on
the ninety-fifth floor, and a plane hits 
below you, the building could take you
to the ground, and everyone could be 
safe, even if you left your birdseed
shirt at home that day.
I've only been in a limousine twice
ever. The first time was terrible, 
even though the limousine was wonderful.
I'm not allowed to watch TV at 
home, and I'm not allowed to watch TV in
limousines either, but it was still 
neat that there was a TV there. I asked
if we could go by school, so 
Toothpaste and The Minch could see me in
a limousine. Mom said that 
school wasn't on the way, and we
couldn't be late to the cemetery. "Why 
not?" I asked, which I actually thought
was a good question, because if you 
think about it, why not? Even though I'm
not anymore, I used to be an 
atheist, which means I didn't believe in
things that couldn't be observed. I 
believed that once you're dead, you're
dead forever, and you don't feel 
anything, and you don't even dream. It's
not that I believe in things that can't 
be observed now, because I don't. It's
that I believe that things are extremely 
complicated. And anyway, it's not like
we were actually burying him, anyway.
Even though I was trying hard for it
not to, it was annoying me 
how Grandma kept touching me, so I
climbed into the front seat and poked 
the driver's shoulder until he gave me
some attention. "What. Is. Your. 
Designation." I asked in Stephen Hawking
voice. "Say what?" "He wants to 
know your name," Grandma said from the
back seat. He handed me his card.
GERALD THOMPSON
Sunshine Limousine
serving the five boroughs
(212) 570-7249

I handed him my card and told him,
"Greetings. Gerald. I. Am. 
Oskar." He asked me why I was talking
like that. I told him, "Oskar's CPU is 
a neural-net processor. A learning
computer. The more contact he has with 
humans, the more he learns." Gerald
said, "O" and then he said "K." I 
couldn't tell if he liked me or not, so
I told him, "Your sunglasses are one 
hundred dollars." He said, "One
seventy-five." "Do you know a lot of curse 
words?" "I know a couple." "I'm not
allowed to use curse 
words." "Bummer." "What's 'bummer'? "
"It's a bad thing." "Do you 
know 'shit'?" "That's a curse, isn't
it?" "Not if you say 'shiitake.' " "Guess 
not." "Succotash my Balzac,
dipshiitake." Gerald shook his head and 
cracked up a little, but not in the bad
way, which is at me. "I can't even 
say 'hair pie,' " I told him, "unless
I'm talking about an actual pie made out of 
rabbits. Cool driving gloves." "Thanks."
And then I thought of something, so I 
said it. "Actually, if limousines were
extremely long, they wouldn't need 
drivers. You could just get in the back
seat, walk through the limousine, and 
then get out of the front seat, which
would be where you wanted to go. So in 
this situation, the front seat would be
at the cemetery." "And I would be 
watching the game right now." I patted
his shoulder and told him, "When you 
look up 'hilarious' in the dictionary,
there's a picture of you."
In the back seat, Mom was holding
something in her purse. I 
could tell that she was squeezing it,
because I could see her arm muscles. 
Grandma was knitting white mittens, so I
knew they were for me, even 
though it wasn't cold out. I wanted to
ask Mom what she was squeezing and 
why she had to keep it hidden. I
remember thinking that even if I were 
suffering hypothermia, I would never,
ever put on those mittens.
"Now that I'm thinking about it," I
told Gerald, "they could make an 
incredibly long limousine that had its
back seat at your mom's VJ and its 
front seat at your mausoleum, and it
would be as long as your life." Gerald 
said, "Yeah, but if everyone lived like
that, no one would ever meet anyone, 
right?" I said, "So?"
Mom squeezed, and Grandma knitted, and
I told Gerald, "I kicked 
a French chicken in the stomach once,"
because I wanted to make him 
crack up, because if I could make him
crack up, my boots could be a little 
lighter. He didn't say anything,
probably because he didn't hear me, so I 
said, "I said I kicked a French chicken
in the stomach once." "Huh?" "It 
said, 'Oeuf.' " "What is that?" "It's a
joke. Do you want to hear another, or 
have you already had un oeuf?" He looked
at Grandma in the mirror and 
said, "What's he saying?" She said, "His
grandfather loved animals more than 
he loved people." I said, "Get it? Oeuf?"
I crawled back, because it's dangerous
to drive and talk at the 
same time, especially on the highway,
which is what we were on. Grandma 
started touching me again, which was
annoying, even though I didn't want it 
to be.

</file>

<file= AmE06_R09>

By the time Shulman reached the starting line, the race was already seven minutes old. Not that it mattered. All the runners wore a microchip laced onto their shoes that wasn't activated until they stepped on the red mat. So, theoretically, it was possible for someone to not finish first but still win if he covered the distance in less time than everyone else. But that didn't matter either. Shulman's decision to line up toward the back of the 32,000 participants in the New York City Marathon was less strategic than it was logical. Similar to the reason why cowboys, if given the choice, preferred to be behind the horses during a stampede. It just seemed less likely that he'd fall, be trampled by 64,000 muscular legs, and have his body pounded into domino-size cubes on the roadway's steel grating if he hung back a little.

"Look where we are!" Maria shouted as they took their first running steps onto the Verrazano Bridge, which, as far as most New Yorkers knew, was named after the Italian explorer best known for having this bridge named after him.

"Can you believe it?" she added.

In fact, he couldn't. Despite all the training and anticipation, there was no way he had truly ever envisioned himself doing something like this. But here he was. Shulman. A middle-aged

stationery-store owner who until a few months ago used gym shorts only as pajama bottoms was now running across a toll bridge, with a number pinned to his shirt, being swept along by the adrenaline flow of the moving throng around him.

"Remember what Coach Jeffrey said!" Maria shouted again.

Boy, is she beautiful, he said to himself. Even in this setting. Among the thousands of runners from hundreds of countries participating in this event, she still stood out.

"Remember? Don't start too quickly!"

Boy, is she loud, he said to himself. Even in this setting. Among the thousands of runners from hundreds of countries also calling out to friends, hers was the voice that rang out above the rest.

But she was right. Coach Jeffrey always stressed the importance of having respect for the distance they were about to run. Twenty-six miles. Actually, 26.2 miles. So it was advisable to stick to the prescribed pace and resist all urges to speed things up. The key was to conserve for the long haul. All of which suited Shulman just fine. He was in no rush. His goal was simple. All he wanted to do was finish. Try to soak up all that he could along the way. And then, when the race was over, figure out how to completely change his life and decide what he was going to do for the next thirty or forty years. That's all. Simple.
Last Memorial Day. At a family barbecue. Shulman was about to make his announcement.

Not that his plan would be of particular interest to anyone at this picnic table. Even at this advanced age, his older siblings did not take him seriously. At best, he was tolerated. Humored. They were doctors. Medical and PhDs. They called each other "Doc." Shulman owned a stationery store. They hardly called him at all.

Still, it was imperative that he have his say. The deadline was tomorrow and Shulman knew from experience that only when an idea was actually translated into spoken words would it begin to exist in the world outside his head. That's how it would be liberated. Given the freedom to live or die on its own accord in lieu of banishment to that sad limbo where stillborn ideas reside.

So it was in this setting, at this holiday outing, that Shulman, who had recently billowed out to a record-high 248 pounds, revealed that he was thinking of running a marathon. That it would be for charity. And that he'd have people sponsor him.

"The money will benefit AIDS research, with a portion of it going toward a training program that starts next Sunday, so I'll be prepared for the big race in November," he explained.

Reaction was swift and hailed from all schools ranging from the psychiatric ("You're out of your fucking mind"), to the religious ("God, you're out of your fucking mind"), to the scientific ("A mass that large, unless dropped from a tower 26.2 miles high or strapped to the top of one of those mercury boosters they send up at Canaveral, could never generate enough energy on its own to cover a distance like that"). However, the most dramatic take on Shulman's declaration was turned in by his impossibly tan parents, who made the trip from Boca to his New Jersey doorstep in what had to be record time.

"Mom, Dad, what are you doing here?"

"What are we doing here? You have children. If one of them was dying, wouldn't you get on a plane?"

"Dying? Who's dying?"

"You are."

"I'm dying?"

"Stop with the jokes. You have AIDS. Now help your father with the bags."

An hour later. With his wife, Paula, who knew better than to interfere, at his side, this discussion was still raging over coffee.

"So you were lying."

"No, Mom, I wasn't lying. I said it was a charity run to raise money for AIDS."

"No you didn't."

"You weren't even there when I told everyone."

"What does that have to do with anything?"

"Look, why would I say I have a terrible disease if I didn't?"

"And why would your father and I drop everything and fly our asses up to Jersey unless you said that you did? We have very busy lives. I'm learning Spanish so I can understand the gardener, and your father's going to take up golf after he gets his new hip. This cake is delicious. Henry, try the cake."

"I'm too aggravated to eat."

"Henry, the beauty just said he's not dying."

"Okay, maybe a small piece."

"Why are you doing this?" Paula asked several hours later.

It was evening. Shulman and Paula were in bed. She was leafing through catalogues while Shulman was pretending not to mind that she was leafing through catalogues instead of noticing that he was very interested in having sexual relations with her. Her question was a fair one, however, because Shulman hated running. Always did. To him, the act of alternately placing one foot in front of the other as quickly as possible was never regarded as anything more than a slower form of transportation employed solely as a means to get to a faster form of transportation. You run to catch a bus. You run to make a plane. Mission accomplished, you take a seat. No more running.

But as much as he hated running, Shulman had even more disdain for runners because it seemed that all runners ever talked about (with the possible exception of mute runners) was running. How today's run felt. How today's run felt compared with yesterday's run. How they felt a cramp around the seventh mile of their run but it started to loosen up around the fortieth mile of their run. In addition to their smug implications that because they wore shorts and owned watches that beeped intermittently they were now members of an elite segment of middle-class white people whose metabolism had magically turned Kenyan. That their hearts now beat only once or twice a year, that pasta now just slid through their bodies and out their asses looking exactly the way it did when it went in, and that someday they were all going to get together and have a huge electrolyte festival that the rest of us wouldn't be attending because we'd all be dead because we weren't runners.

These were rather strong feelings, so even Shulman was surprised how his curiosity was mysteriously aroused when he saw that poster in Ben & Jerry's (of all places) claiming that in six months a person could be trained to complete a marathon.

"Well, it's for a very good cause," he offered up to Paula.

Her stare let him know he should keep talking. That there had to be more. Primarily because none of his previous charitable gestures had involved jogging around five metropolitan boroughs. "There's also a part of me that's intrigued by the challenge," he continued.

"The challenge?"

"Yes," he said, "the challenge."

"I can't remember you ever being intrigued by a challenge before."

"Are you kidding? I've always been intrigued by a good challenge. I've just never done anything about it before."

"So that's the reason? The challenge?"

"That, plus I read somewhere that the greatest gift a man can give his family is to get in shape. You know, try to make the odds work in my favor so I won't end up being one of those old men who watch their grandchildren's Little League games hooked up to a generator in foul territory. So far, those are my reasons. Then again, maybe if you and I had some sexual intercourse about now, it could provide further clarity to this whole thing."

"But aren't you in training?" she asked while simultaneously picking up the phone and dialing an 800 number. "I thought that athletes in training were supposed to abstain because it sapped their strength."

"No-o-o-o-o," Shulman responded with what he hoped were enough o's to imply that she shouldn't be silly. "That's just an old wives' tale that's been scientifically dispelled. In fact, all the current medical literature indicates that the more conjugal activity a man has prior to an athletic event, especially one that requires incredible endurance for, oh, let's say a race through the streets of an East Coast city that never sleeps, the more it will actually enhance his performance. You see, sweetie, when seminal fluid accumulates, it tends to weigh a guy down. So it stands to reason - "

"Yes," Paula said into the phone. "I'm interested in these hassocks you have on page ninety-seven of your catalogue."

Her smile helped. Somewhat. Though slight and with a meaning vague enough to inspire lively debate, Shulman opted for an interpretation that said, Hey, I love you and isn't it a kick that we can still make these little connections after all we've been through and, if not for the uncanny timing of this salesperson, I'd be all over your still remarkably attractive bones at this very moment. And while this take may indeed have borne little or no resemblance to her actual message, it was yet another shining example of the spin that had helped Shulman weather the pounding the human spirit took during its trek from one end of life to the other. It was a useful piece of artillery, serving as both weapon and shield in a line of defense that had helped him survive four childhoods (his own and those of his three children), the uneven terrain of a twenty-six-year marriage, and the slow deterioration of a business that he'd built from scratch.

His this-glass-is-not-only-full-it's-full-of-champagne perspective came into existence early on when attempting to satisfy parents with stratospheric expectations. Was refined along the way to bridge any gaps between where he actually was and where he felt he should be at that point. And was honed to a near art form when it came to using his overinvolvement in his kids' lives as noble justification for the underachievement of his own. But now, as their youngest child was college-bound and would soon have an address that was different from theirs, Shulman was left with few distractions. And even fewer places to hide. No high school baseball games to fill those weekday-afternoon voids. No all-nighters paraphrasing CliffsNotes in an attempt to camouflage the fact that someone hadn't read Silas Marner. Conversely, there was no longer the need on the part of his children to heed the wisdom of a man desperate to get things right his second time around.

And this is where Shulman was stuck. Unprepared for the sudden absence of all of the activity that had made life so easy to deflect. Or to deny.

</file>

