<file= AmE06_H01>

BLS has other alternatives to using hedonic functions for dealing with changes in quality, however
these methods rely on, perhaps, more subjective analysis. For example, one alternative used by BLS
is to ask the respondent to provide a dollar estimate of the change in quality embedded in the new
product.
There is an additional fundamental difference between these two hedonic techniques which lies in
the weighting of the observations. In the 'regression price index,' the individual observations are
essentially unweighted while the 'composite price index' reflects a weighted average of observations.
Aizcorbe and Pho (2005) examined this issue of aggregating detailed observations for over 60 classes
of consumer electronic and IT goods and found that differences in the weights do matter.
4. Impact of Hedonic Price Indexes on Measuring Real GDP
Hedonic price indexes are used to deflate a number of GDP final demand components, accounting
for about 20 percent of nominal GDP in recent years. (See appendix A for a table presenting the
components of GDP that are deflated with hedonic-type price indexes.) It should be noted that not
all of these price indexes reflect hedonic methods for all years. In many cases, source data used
to construct the hedonic function are not available for all years and a bias-adjustment is used to
account for quality changes that may not be reflected in a traditional matched model price index. For
example, the price index for prepackaged software reflects hedonic methods for years 1985-93; years
1994-present reflect a matched model price index with a bias-adjustment.
For many of the 'hedonic components' the difference between the matched model price and the
hedonic price index is small and somewhat offsetting. For example, the introduction of hedonic price
indexes by BLS slightly raised the rate of price increase for VCR's and for rent but slightly lowered
it for televisions.
The main component in which hedonic methods have had a significant impact is computers and peripheral equipment. Focusing on private fixed investment in computers and peripheral equipment,
the average annual price decline from 1990-2005 is 16.0 percent, although the rates of decline appear
to be slowing down in more recent years (average annual decline for years 2001-2005 is 11.1 percent).
Several previous papers and articles have examined the robustness and validity of hedonic computer
price indexes, including a comprehensive literature review by Berndt and Rappaport (2000). Berndt
and Rappaport's review compared rates of decline for PC's and Mainframes estimated by a dozen or
so hedonic price index experts. Naturally there was some variation in reported declines over varying
time periods, however, when detailed components are compared over similar periods the results are
consistent, including BEA's computer price index.
There is evidence that a 'well constructed' matched model index for rapidly changing high-tech goods
could yield a price index that adequately controls for quality differences and that this price index is
consistent with a quality-adjusted price index constructed using hedonic methods. Aizcorbe, Corrado,
and Doms (2003) constructed price indexes for microprocessors using high frequency disaggregated
data on models whose characteristics were constant over time and found that their matched model
price indexes were remarkably close to those constructed using hedonic methods (table 2). Similar
results were reported in Aizcorbe, Corrado, and Doms (2000) for personal computers. Silver and
Heravi (2001, 2002) report similar findings using scanner data for washing machines and televisions.
However, given that we often do not have the abundant data necessary to construct such a matched
model price index, then the hedonic price index is the practical approach for measuring prices of
rapidly changing goods or goods that by nature are heterogeneous (e.g. custom software or homes).
Ideally, in order to measure the impact of hedonic price indexes on real GDP, we would have a second
set of traditional matched model price indexes for all goods that are deflated using hedonic price
indexes and we would re-compute real GDP using this second set of price indexes and then compare
growth rates. Unfortunately this approach is not possible due to resource constraints. Borrowing
from an analysis presented by Landefeld and Grimm (2000) we have prepared a shortcut one can
take to estimate the affect that the hedonic quality-adjustment process for computers and peripheral
has on measuring real GDP. Table 3 below shows that the average annual change in unit value
for single-user computers over the years 2001-2005 is -4.9 percent. This estimate, which does not
take any changes in quality into account, is derived from shipments data published in the 'Current
Industrial Reports' by the U.S. Census Bureau (http://www.census.gov/cir/www/alpha.html). The
NIPA private fixed investment quality-adjusted price index for single-user computers (a.k.a. PC's)
shows an average rate of decline 16.4 percent over the same years. The difference in the two declines is 11.5 percent, which can be characterized as the affect of quality-adjusting the PC price index.
Assuming this estimated 'quality adjustment' difference for PC's is representative of all types of
computers and peripheral equipment (or provides an upper bound estimate which is reasonable given
that the price index for PC's declines on average more rapidly than any of the other component) we
can approximate the impact that hedonic quality adjustment has for all computers and peripheral
equipment by multiplying the 11.5 percent 'quality-adjustment' difference by the average nominal
share of final sales of computers to GDP (about 0.8 percent). The results of this exercise shows that
the estimated impact of the hedonic quality adjustment is less than 0.1 percentage point of average
annual real GDP growth over the period. This exercise is not intended to mitigate the role that
hedonic methods have in constructing high quality price indexes; rather it is intended to illustrate that
one should not attribute periods of robust real GDP growth, at least for the United States, to the use
of hedonic methods to estimate quality-adjusted price indexes.
5. Misconceptions about Hedonic Price Indexes
The experience of the U.S. statistical agencies may help dispel several misconceptions about the
application of hedonic methods. We list a few misconceptions below, in each case following with a
brief discussion of the actual experience of applied hedonic methods.
5.1. Quality-adjusted Price Indexes Are Synonymous with Hedonic Indexes
Virtually all methods used to construct price indexes are designed to measure price change holding
quality constant (an exception being unit-value indexes, which are not designed to hold quality
constant). Hedonic methods hold quality constant by conditioning on characteristics in a regression
analysis. There are other techniques, in addition to hedonic methods, for adjusting for changes in
quality. For example, BLS may ask the respondent to provide a dollar estimate of the change in quality
embedded in the new product and adjust the reported price for that new product accordingly so that it
'matches' the product reported in the previous period. A potential drawback to this technique is that
an increase in price may be wholly attributed to the increase in quality. Alternatively, the reported
value of the quality change may be based solely on the cost of incorporating that change, without
reflecting the value perceived by the customer.) Another quality-adjustment technique, recently
adopted by BLS to construct the CPI for computers, is referred to as 'attribute cost adjustment.' In
this technique, monetary values for the attributes that affect price (e.g. processor speed, amount of
RAM, storage capacity, etc.) are obtained from original equipment manufacturers (OEM), websites
and price compiler sites on the Internet and these values are used as the basis to determine appropriate quality adjustment amounts. There is evidence that this technique yields results similar to those
obtained using hedonic methods. A third technique is to impute a price change for the product that
has experienced a change in quality. For this technique to be valid, the statistical agency must develop
an imputation strategy that is consistent with the price-setting behavior of the seller. An example of
such a strategy is the class-mean imputation method. The class-mean imputation strategy is often
used for products where price change is closely associated with periodic introduction of new lines
or models (e.g. motor vehicles) and direct quality adjustment is not feasible. With this method,
price change is estimated from the price changes of other observations that are going through similar
item replacement at the same time and were either quality adjusted directly or were judged directly
comparable.
Traditional matched model methods hold quality constant by carefully specifying each variety in the
sample and ensuring that exactly the same variety is resampled each period. There can be problems
with matched model methods - the samples may be unrepresentative or out of date, the methods
used to handle new or disappearing items may be sensitive to unusual price changes that sometimes
occur when an item first appears or disappears, or the decisions made by the statistical agency analyst
about how to treat the replacement of items in the sample may be faulty. These problems may lead to
either upward or downward biases and hedonic methods are important because they can help address
some of these problems. Several researchers - for example, Aizcorbe, Corrado and Doms (2003) &
(2000) - have observed that matched model methods using good samples with up-to-date weights
may give results similar to, or perhaps better than, hedonic methods.
5.2. Hedonic Methods Are Opposed to Traditional (Matched Model) Methods
In fact, most hedonic research at U.S. statistical agencies has led to the opposite conclusion - hedonic
research has often led to improvements in sampling methods that have led to better samples, sample
replacement strategies, or other improvements in the matched model indexes. The U.S. statistical
agencies have found that hedonic analysis is a useful tool, whether used in the background as a guide
to application of the matched model methods, or used directly in making quality adjustments for
sample items that are being replaced. The articles by Liegey (1993) and Fixler et al. (1999) on the
use of hedonics in the CPI for apparel include a number of examples of how hedonic methods can be
used in both ways.
5.3. Hedonic Methods Always Result in a Lower Rate of Price Change
Many people think of the rapid decline of the BEA and BLS computer price indexes as representative
of hedonic methods. The recently developed hedonic index for LAN equipment of Doms and Furman
is another example of an item for which application of hedonic methods led to a much lower rate of
price growth. On the other hand, several of the BLS hedonic CPI's have resulted in higher rates of
price change - as described above, the hedonic rent indexes were specifically designed to correct for
a downward bias. Also, the apparel indexes and, perhaps more surprisingly, videocassette recorders
are examples of items for which hedonic methods led to higher rates of price growth. 
5.4. Hedonic Methods 'Solve' the Quality Adjustment Problem
Hedonic regressions are only as good as the data and modeling efforts that go into them. If an important
new characteristic has appeared on the market, but is not included in the hedonic regression equation,
there is no hope of using the hedonic function to adjust for the improvement in quality. Similarly,
just as matched model methods may be biased if samples are out of date or unrepresentative, so
also hedonic methods may be biased if estimated using unrepresentative samples. For both hedonic
methods and more traditional methods, the statistical agencies must depend on knowledgeable staff
who proactively keep track of new products and other market developments.
5.5. Hedonic Methods Are Prohibitively Expensive
Our experience has been that hedonic methods do require time and effort. Probably the most
significant issue is collecting prices and detailed characteristics for a representative sample of models
or varieties. We found that for a number of items - for example, televisions and rental housing - the
data already collected by the statistical agency were perfectly adequate for hedonic analysis. For
other items, special data collection or purchases of secondary data may be required; as Fixler et al.
(1999) describe, the BLS CPI program is now employing both of these approaches specifically for use
in the estimation of hedonic regressions.

</file>

<file= AmE06_H02>

Hispanic Students. Table 6 displays the results for Hispanic
students. On some assessments, the scores of Hispanic elementary
students were typically higher for those attending schools with
either 301 to 600 students or 601 to 900 students. The scores for
students attending the smallest schools, those with 300 or fewer,
were similar to those attending the larger schools.
Among Hispanic middle school students, the scores on the math
assessment were highest for those attending moderately sized
schools. There were no other statistically significant differences in
the scores of Hispanic middle school students. There were also no
differences in the scores of Hispanic high school students across
any of the assessments.
Asian Students. Table 7 shows the performance of Asian students
by school size. The results do suggest somewhat different patterns
for Asian students than for all students. While scores of all
elementary students were typically higher at larger schools, the
scores of Asian elementary students were often lower for those
attending larger schools. For example, social studies scores among
Asian elementary students at schools with 901 to 1,200 students
were approximately 50 points lower than those of Asian
elementary students at schools with 300 or fewer students.
The results for Asian middle school students were mixed. On some
assessments the Asian students at larger schools performed as well
as those attending smaller schools, while on other assessments they
performed worse.
On most assessments, there were no differences in the scores of
Asian high school students attending different-sized schools.
Differences did exist, however, on the reading assessment and the
practical living and vocational skills assessment. For reading,
scores were lowest for Asian students in school with 901 to 1,200
students. For practical living and vocational skills, scores were
typically lower at the moderately sized schools.
Students Receiving Free or Reduced Lunch. Scores were also
compared across school size categories for students participating in
free or reduced lunch programs. Some students who qualify may
choose not to participate in the free or reduced lunch programs, so
those participating may not fully reflect those eligible.
Table 8 indicates that the results for students participating in these
programs exhibited the most variation. On some assessments
administered to elementary students, scores were lower among
those enrolled in moderately sized schools. Scores on the arts and
humanities assessment, however, were lowest among the
elementary students attending large schools. There were few
differences among the scores of middle school students. Among
high school students, scores were typically
School-level Performance
School-level performance was also compared across differentsized
schools. This analysis was similar to the student-level
analysis. The performance levels compared are individual student's
scores aggregated for the school. Students are assigned to
performance levels based on their scores on each assessment. A
student with a score that falls within a particular range would be
classified as performing at the proficient level. The percentage of
students within each performance level is multiplied by a weight
and totaled to determine the school's academic index. Table 9
shows how the academic index is calculated for 4th-grade reading.
Table 10 shows how school-level performance varied across
different-sized schools. As with the student-level results, the
figures show the difference between schools of a particular size
and schools with 300 or fewer students. None of the differences for
elementary schools was statistically significant. For middle and
high schools, scores were typically lower for the moderately sized
schools. There were no statistically significant differences,
however, between the smallest group of schools and the largest
group of schools.
The results of the school-level analysis often differed from the
student-level analysis. For example, elementary student-level
scores did vary across school size, but no evidence of this
difference was found in the school-level analysis. The method used
to aggregate student-level scores may be the reason for these
discrepancies. As individual scores are aggregated, some of the
smaller differences are lost. For example, two students might both
be considered distinguished even if there are several points
between their scores. When aggregated at the school level, it only
matters that they scored at the distinguished level, not that one
scored higher. Therefore, both of these students make the same
contribution to their schools' scores and any difference between
them is lost. Given the lost precision inherent in the school-level
scores, some of the differences observed at the student level would
not be observed at the school level.
In addition to comparing academic scores, it is possible to compare
other measures such as attendance rates, dropout rates, and
retention rates across different-sized schools. Dropout rates
represent the number of students who drop out of school. Retention
rates represent the percentage of students who are held back to
repeat a grade. Comparisons across elementary and middle schools
yielded no statistically significant differences across school size for
any of these measures. Differences for high schools are shown in
Table 11. Attendance rates were lower in high schools with 601 to
900 students, otherwise there were no statistically significant
differences. All of the groups of high schools with more than 300
students had higher dropout rates than did high schools with 300 or
fewer students. Other than being higher than schools with 300 or
fewer students, there did not appear to be a strong relationship
between dropout rates and school size. Retention rates were higher
in schools with 901 to 1,500 students, but as with the academic
measures of performance, there was no difference between the
smaller and larger schools.
Limitations of the Analysis
The results discussed above provide an indication of how different
types of students perform in schools of various sizes. There are
some limitations, however, that should be noted. First, while it was
possible to account for some factors that could influence scores,
such as participation in an extended school services program, it is
not possible to account for all the factors that influence student and
school scores. For example, school officials and teachers may have
developed independent programs to address their unique situations.
Data on these programs are limited and not consistently collected
across all districts in the state.
In addition, it is likely that some families locate in school districts
with characteristics that are seen as desirable. Families that believe
small schools are preferable may locate in districts with small
schools. If this is more likely to occur among families with highperforming
students, then the results might be affected by these
choices. Similarly, high-performing students may be attracted to
larger schools that are able to offer a broader range of
opportunities. As a result, the differences in performance across
different-sized schools may not reflect only the advantages or
disadvantages associated with different sizes. Instead, the results
would also reflect the choices made by different types of families.
It is unclear how much of the differences should be attributable to
school size and how much should be attributable to other factors.
Due to these limitations, the results should be interpreted as
showing the performance levels of students who are enrolled in
schools of various sizes with the recognition that other factors that
might be unrelated to school size may also affect the results. The
results do not necessarily indicate that the size of a school is the
reason for different scores.
Conclusions
The results presented indicate that students' performance levels do
differ across sizes of schools. These differences persisted even
after accounting for various factors that could affect performance.
The results comparing scores of all students suggest that students
in the largest schools scored as well or higher than did students at
smaller schools. The differences in scores varied across
elementary, middle, and high schools and across assessments.
Scores for elementary students were generally as high or higher at
the largest schools. For some assessments, however, scores at the smallest and the largest groups of elementary schools were
statistically the same. For middle school students, scores were
progressively higher at the larger schools. Students' scores at high
schools with 300 or fewer students were higher than those with
301 to 600 and those with 601 to 900 students. This differed,
however, for the largest high schools, in which students had scores
as high or higher than students in the smallest schools.
Much of the past research examining the relationship between
enrollment and student performance concluded that performance is
typically lower at larger schools. The original research examining
Kentucky schools that was presented in this report suggests that
this is not the case. One reason for this difference may be the
amount of detailed data available in Kentucky. Often researchers
must rely on samples of data or data that is limited in other ways.
Kentucky collects many types of detailed data across all schools
and for all students, which tends to improve the validity of the
results.
Another possible reason for the different findings is the manner in
which differences in school size were evaluated. Past researchers
typically assumed that the relationship between enrollment and
performance was constant across all school sizes. This assumption
was made by Summers and Wolfe, Fowler and Walberg, and
Caldas. Given this assumption, the results would show a
relationship that was the same across all schools. That is, if the
analysis showed a negative relationship, the relationship would be
negative across all sizes of schools. The relationship between size
and performance, however, might not be constant across all school
sizes.
The results from analyzing Kentucky schools suggest that the
relationship is more complicated. When comparing small schools
to somewhat larger schools, performance was lower among the
somewhat larger schools, indicating a negative relationship
between size and performance. When the largest schools were
included, performance at these schools often exceeded
performance at the smaller schools. Therefore, the relationship is
negative over a range of enrollment but positive beyond that
range.9 Researchers who assumed the relationship was constant
may have found a negative relationship overall because there are
typically more schools with enrollment in the negative range than
there are in the positive range.
Proponents of small schools suggest that small schools offer
students certain advantages that can result in a better education,
such as more personalized attention or greater opportunities to be
involved. There was some evidence suggesting that these types of
advantages may exist. Students' scores at the smallest high schools
were higher than those at somewhat larger schools. For all
students, however, the largest schools frequently had higher scores
than did the smallest schools. This suggests that the advantages
provided at larger schools may be more effective at increasing
scores on the state assessments.
There is an important caveat that should be noted regarding these
results. While the results do indicate that Kentucky students
attending larger schools tend to perform as well as or better on
average than do students at smaller schools, the reasons for this are
not entirely clear. These differences could be due to the advantages
that the largest schools can provide such as specialized programs.
There may be other factors, however, affecting scores that could
not be adequately accounted for in the analysis. For example, if
larger schools are able to provide a broader range of classes than
can smaller schools, higher-performing students may try to enroll
in these schools. In addition, schools with high scores may attract
more students, so that high performance levels result in larger
schools. The performance differences across school size may
reflect these types of choices and other factors that are not
necessarily related to how well students learn at a particular-sized
school.
In addition, to the extent that larger schools do provide certain
education advantages, these advantages may not apply equally to
all students. For example, Asian students in large elementary
schools scored lower than those in small elementary schools.
Similar results were found on some assessments for Asian middle
school students. Therefore, depending on their circumstances,
some students may learn better in the environments provided at
smaller schools, while others may perform better with the greater
resources and more specialized classes that larger schools might
provide.

</file>

<file= AmE06_H03>

As you know, there has been significant confusion on this topic in the popular press; I hope that by disaggregating the various issues and discussing them dispassionately, we may at a minimum dispel some of the more hysterical assertions that have found their way into print.
In addition, the Committee may be interested in possible legislative responses to the President's use of signing statements. As you know, Representative Jackson Lee has already introduced a bill to regulate the creation and use of signing statements. Likewise, Senator Specter introduced a somewhat similar bill last summer, which may also be of interest to the Committee. Therefore, I will address the constitutionality and the structural desirability of these and other possible legislative measures. 
I should mention that I testified before the Senate Judiciary Committee on this same topic last summer, and I will be drawing substantially from that prior testimony today (in Parts I-III). I should also say that I largely agree with the position put forth by Deputy Assistant Attorney General Michelle Boardman at that hearing, and I commend her testimony to this Committee. 
As Ms. Boardman explained, this President's signing statements have not differed significantly from those of his recent predecessors. And in any event, as I shall explain, presidential signing statements are an entirely appropriate means by which the President fulfills his constitutional duty to "take Care that the Laws be faithfully executed."
I. Executive Interpretation 
The most important and most common function of presidential signing statements is to announce - to the Executive Branch and to the public - the President's interpretation of the law. The propriety of such an announcement should be obvious. There is an oft repeated canard that the President has no business interpreting federal statutes - his job is to execute the laws, and interpretation should be left to the courts. A moment's reflection reveals that this view is unsound. It is simply impossible, as a matter of logic, to execute a law without determining what it means. 
A. Informing the Executive Branch of the President's Interpretation 
Imagine, for example, a statute that imposes a tariff on the importation of "vegetables." Comes an eighteen-wheeler full of tomatoes. Is a tomato a vegetable? At the end of the day, maybe the Supreme Court will decide, but long before then, the executive branch is put to a choice: stop the truck at the border or let it through. There is no ducking the question; either choice implies an interpretation of the statute, an interpretation of the word "vegetable." And the President cannot simply flip a coin. He has a constitutional duty to "take Care that the Laws be faithfully executed," and this faithfulness inherently and inevitably includes a good faith effort to determine what "the Laws" mean. In short, as the Supreme Court has explained, "[i]nterpreting a law enacted by Congress to implement the legislative mandate is the very essence of 'execution' of the law."
Nor is the President obliged to leave the choice to individual Border Patrol agents. The Supreme Court has rightly said that the President can and should "supervise and guide [executive officers'] construction of the statutes under which they act in order to secure that unitary and uniform execution of the laws which Article II of the Constitution evidently contemplated in vesting general executive power in the President alone." And as Walter Dellinger, Assistant Attorney General for the Office of Legal Counsel under President Clinton, has explained, this is a "generally uncontroversial . . . function of presidential signing statements" - "to guide and direct executive officials in interpreting or administering a statute."
B. Informing the Public of the President's Interpretation 
Of course, the President need not make his interpretations public; he could quietly instruct the U.S. Border Patrol that a tomato is a vegetable and have done with it. But there are many good reasons why, in most circumstances, a public statement of interpretation is desirable. First, if the President's interpretation is public, then those who believe that his interpretation is erroneous can better and more quickly structure a challenge in court. Second, a public statement of interpretation reduces legal uncertainty; if people know the President's interpretation, they are better able to organize their affairs accordingly. Third, and perhaps most important, a public statement informs Congress of the President's interpretation, and if Congress disagrees, it may pass a bill clarifying the matter. 
In short, in the United States, we have a strong preference for sunlight in government. Once it is clear that interpreting the law is essential to executing it, there can be no independent objection to the President making his interpretations public. This is the primary function of presidential signing statements, and President Clinton's Office of Legal Counsel was quite right to call this function "uncontroversial."
II. The Canon of Constitutional Avoidance 
The President interprets statutes in much the same way that courts do, with the same panoply of tools and strategies. His lawyers carefully study the text and structure of Acts of Congress, aided perhaps by dictionaries, linguistic treatises, and other tools of statutory interpretation. In addition, just like courts, they also apply well-established maxims of statutory interpretation, called canons.
One canon in particular is of interest today. As Justice Holmes explained in 1927, "[T]he rule is settled that as between two possible interpretations of a statute, by one of which it would be unconstitutional and by the other valid, our plain duty is to adopt that which will save the Act." This is known as the canon of constitutional avoidance, and it "is followed out of respect for Congress, which we assume legislates in the light of constitutional limitations."
This is the canon that the President is applying when he says, in signing statements, that he will construe a particular provision to be consistent with a particular constitutional command. Many of the presidential signing statements that have most exercised the press have taken this form, so it is crucial to understand what these statements do and do not say. These statements emphatically do not "reserve the right to disobey" the law. They do not "amount to partial vetoes." They do not "declare[ the President's] intention not to enforce anything he dislikes." And they do not declare that the statutes enacted by Congress are unconstitutional. 
In fact, they declare exactly the opposite. As President Clinton's Office of Legal Counsel has explained, these sorts of signing statements are "analogous to the Supreme Court's practice of construing statutes, if possible, to avoid holding them unconstitutional . . . ." What these signing statements say, in effect, is that if an ambiguity appears on the face of the statute or becomes apparent in the course of execution, and if one possible meaning of the statute would render it unconstitutional, then the President will presume that Congress intended the other, constitutional meaning - and he will faithfully enforce the statute so understood. 
Again, this amounts to nothing more than a straightforward application of a canon of statutory construction that was already well established when Justice Holmes elaborated it in 1927, a canon that finds its entire rationale in "a just respect for the legislature" and the faithfulness of Representatives and Senators to their constitutional oaths. If a statute is ambiguous, we - the President, the Court, the People - presume that Congress intended it to be constitutional. Now, it may be argued that this canon has grown too strong. After all, it is not used merely as a tie-breaker for ambiguous statutes. Even if dictionaries or other canons point in the opposite direction, the canon of constitutional avoidance sometimes wins the day. As the Supreme Court explained in 1895, "every reasonable construction must be resorted to in order to save a statute from unconstitutionality," and reasonable people may differ on what constitutes a reasonable construction. Moreover, the Supreme Court has held that "[a] statute must be construed, if possible, so as to avoid not only the conclusion that it is unconstitutional but also grave doubts upon that score." This aspect of the doctrine is of more recent vintage and has been subject to quite compelling critique.
For present purposes, though, it suffices to note that the President's application of this canon has been consistent with the interpretive doctrine espoused by the Court. If there is any plausible interpretation of a statute that would avoid a serious constitutional question, the President - like the Court - gives Congress the benefit of the doubt and adopts the constitutional interpretation. 
III. Presidential Signing Statements in Court 
An entirely separate issue is whether presidential signing statements are relevant to judicial interpretation of statutes. Courts sometimes use legislative history to resolve ambiguities in statutes (though this practice has been subject to withering criticism). The issue here is whether courts can and should put presidential signing statements to analogous use. 
There are strong arguments on both sides of this question. On the one hand, one might say that judicial interpretation of statutes should seek to discover legislative intent, and the President is not a legislator. The President's power over bills is the power to "approve" or disapprove legislation; it is a simple, binary, up-or-down decision, subsequent to, and distinct from, the legislative process. Indeed, the Constitution makes clear that even though the veto power appears in Article I, it is not legislative power. The Constitution provides that "[a]ll legislative Powers herein granted shall be vested in a Congress of the United States," not a Congress and a President. And it is "[t]he Congress," not the Congress plus the President, who "shall have Power . . . To make all Laws." 
On the other hand, one might say that this is an unduly formalistic view of the legislative process. In reality, the administration often drafts legislation, and even when it does not, the entire legislative machinery operates in the shadow of the President's veto power. On this view, the President's understanding of a bill as reflected in a signing statement is at least as important as the understanding of Congress reflected in legislative history. Moreover, any effort to glean the intent of Congress from legislative history is arguably quixotic: first, it is difficult to know how many Representatives and Senators agreed with any given portion of legislative history; and second, it is arguably By contrast, the President is just a single person, so his interpretive statement poses none of those problems. For this reason, the argument runs, presidential signing statements are more valuable because they are inherently reliable as an indication of presidential intent, whereas legislative history is less valuable because it is inherently unreliable as an indication of congressional intent. 
My own view is the same as Justice Scalia's. I believe that the project of statutory interpretation is to discern "the original meaning of the text, not what the original draftsmen intended." And I believe that presidential signing statements - like legislative history - are of very little use in that project. In my view, absent instruction on this question from Congress, courts should rely on both equally - for the strength of their reasoning and nothing more. 
IV. Legislative Responses 
It follows from the analysis above that a general legislative response to the President's use of signing statements is probably unnecessary. Nevertheless, because a bill on this topic, H.R. 264, has been introduced by Representative Jackson Lee and is now pending before the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, I shall address the balance of my testimony to the constitutionality and the wisdom of such proposals. I shall begin with the pending bill, and I will conclude by discussing some other options, including the bill that Senator Specter introduced last summer. 
A. Limiting Funds for Signing Statements 
Section 3(a) of H.R. 264 provides: "None of the funds made available to the Executive Office of the President, or to any Executive agency . . . from any source may be used to produce, publish, or disseminate any statement made by the President contemporaneously with the signing of any bill or joint resolution presented for signing by the President."

</file>

<file= AmE06_H04>

The Joint Study Committee on the Equine Industry met three times from March 7, 2006, until April 18, 2006. The Committee heard presentations from a number of experts in the equine industry including: 
• Mr. Glen Petty, from the North Carolina Horse Council, presented the results of the 2005 economic impact study done by the American Horse Council Foundation which showed that the total impact of the equine industry in the United States is approximately $101.5 billion. This impact can be broken down into $32 billion from recreation, $28.8 billion from showing, $26.1 billion from racing, and $14.7 billion from other activities. The study also showed the North Carolina ranked 8th among the states in the number of horses. North Carolina, however, has not taken a census of its equine population since 1996 and it has never conducted an economic impact study of the industry. 
• Mr. Gene Parker, Parker Farms, Orrum, NC, made a presentation on quarter horse breeding and showing. Mr. Parker is a national Director for the American Quarter Horse Association. He described a number of large shows that have been held in the State and the great potential that exists. 
• Mr. Howard Isley, Assistant Commissioner, NC Department of Agriculture, reported on the three State horse facilities. Mr. Isley also told the Committee that the last study of the State's equine population was done in 1996 and even then they did not get a complete count. Mr. Isley stated that the Department recommended that a census be taken of the number of horses by county. He estimated that the cost of such a study would be approximately $273,000.00. He also suggested that NC State University could use the information to perform an economic impact study at a cost of approximately $30,000. 
• Ms. Peggy McElven, Director of St. Andrews Presbyterian College Equine Program discussed the school's program and facilities. In 1995, St. Andrews established the nation's first four year degree program in Equine Business Management. The school also has a therapeutic equine center that opened in 2001. Ms. McElven noted that the program has grown continuously and that they have seen directly the tremendous opportunity and economic impact of the equine industry. 
• Mr. Roger Secrist from the NC Horse Park Association talked about the development and success of the Stoneybrook Steeplechase. Mr. Secrist noted that statistics show that most horse parks struggle at 
first but that they can become engines for economic development in the whole surrounding area. 
Senator Weinstein appointed a sub-committee to develop recommendations for the Committee to consider. The sub-committee, chaired by Tom Hendrickson, met four times. The sub-committee considered the need for an assessment of the economic impact of the equine industry similar to the study that was done by the University of North Carolina at Charlotte and the Sanford Holshouser Business Development Group for the motorsports industry. Ernie Pearson, Managing Partner with the Sanford Holshouser Business Development Group spoke to the sub-committee about the process for conducting such a study and the estimated cost. 
The sub-committee further discussed the studies and activities ongoing in a number of east coast states. Virginia, Maryland, Florida, Pennsylvania, Kentucky and a number of other states have recently conducted economic impact studies and used the information gained to develop tools for improving the equine industry in their states. 
The sub-committee recommended that the General Assembly fund a study to be conducted by the Agricultural Advancement Consortium to provide a thorough assessment of the current status of the equine industry in the State and to develop a comprehensive plan to maximize the economic opportunities of the industry. The sub-committee further suggested that several other actions be consider in order to improve the short-term and the long-term viability of the industry. A copy of the sub-committee report is attached as Appendix A. 
The full committee met to review the recommendations of the sub-committee. The committee voted to adopt the sub-committee recommendations.

FINDINGS AND RECOMMENDATIONS 
FINDINGS 1: 
The Committee finds that North Carolina is very well suited to hosting equine operations and events. The Committee also finds that studies in other nearby states have shown an economic impact of $1 billion or more from the equine industry in each of those states. Other states are moving rapidly to capitalize on this potential source of revenue. Virginia has recently upgraded the Virginia Horse Center in Lexington. A 2004 economic impact study showed that the total economic impact from that facility alone was in excess of $52 million dollars. The facility draws competitors and spectators from all over the country, including North Carolina. Maryland has begun developing a state horse park similar in nature to Kentucky's world class facility. Florida has recently opened their horse park in Ocala. 
While, North Carolina appears well situated to develop the equine industry, there has been no recent survey of the equine population or analysis of its impact on the North Carolina economy. The Committee finds that without a proper assessment, development of this industry will be haphazard and the State will not be able to fully capitalize upon a growing source of jobs and revenue. A thorough study of the industry base is needed to make proper plans and recommendations for its future growth. 
RECOMMENDATION 1: 
The Joint Study Committee on the Equine Industry recommends that the 2006 General Assembly appropriate funds to the Agricultural Advancement Consortium to study the economic impact of the equine industry in North Carolina and develop strategies to maximize the economic impact in the State.
PROPOSED LEGISLATION 
A BILL TO BE ENTITLED 
AN ACT TO APPROPRIATE FUNDS TO THE AGRICULTURAL ADVANCEMENT CONSORTIUM TO STUDY THE ECONOMIC IMPACT OF THE EQUINE INDUSTRY IN NORTH CAROLINA AND DEVELOP STRATEGIES TO MAXIMIZE THE ECONOMIC IMPACT OF THIS INDUSTRY IN THE STATE. 
Whereas, the 2005 economic impact study of the horse industry in the United States done by the American Horse Council showed a total impact of $101.5 billion: $32 billion from recreation, $28.8 billion from showing, $26.1 billion from racing, and $14.7 billion from other activities; and 
Whereas, that study ranked North Carolina 8th among the states in the number of horses in the State; and 
Whereas, the last survey of the equine industry in North Carolina was undertaken by the North Carolina Department of Agriculture and Consumer Services in 1996; and 
Whereas, no comprehensive study has ever been done to determine the economic impact of the equine industry in the State; and 
Whereas, Virginia, Maryland, Pennsylvania, Delaware, Kentucky, and other states have recently conducted economic impact studies and have found that the equine industry contributes substantially to each state's economy. For example, Maryland determined the total economic impact of the equine industry to be $1.5 billion dollars per year, and Virginia estimated a $1 billion dollar impact with the Virginia Horse Center in Lexington alone generating in excess of $53 million; and 
Whereas, a number of states also have established equine industry boards and are actively recruiting equine operations and activities; including the development of major horse parks in Maryland and Florida; and 
Whereas, North Carolina is well situated as to climate, geography, and transportation routes for equine operations and activities and has an opportunity to increase its share of the equine industry dollar; and 
Whereas, North Carolina was the home of Janus, the foundation sire of the American Quarter Horse; and 
Whereas, Sir Archie, considered one of the foundation sires of the American Thoroughbred, lived in North Carolina during the early 1800s; and 
Whereas, expansion of the equine industry would provide jobs, alternatives to tobacco production, aid in the preservation of farmland and open space, and contribute to the general welfare of the State; Now, therefore, 
The General Assembly of North Carolina enacts: 
SECTION 1. There is appropriated to the Rural Economic Development Center the sum of five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00) to be allocated to the Agricultural Advancement Consortium for the purpose of assessing the numbers, composition, and value of the equine industry in North Carolina, analyzing the direct and indirect impact of the industry on the State's economy and the development of a comprehensive plan to maximize the economic opportunities presented by the industry. 
SECTION 2. The assessment of the equine industry shall provide data on both a statewide and county basis. The assessment shall include the following: 
(1) A census of equines in the State, including numbers, breeds, and disciplines. 
(2) The value of equines in the State. 
(3) The number of equine owners. 
(4) The number of equine operations. 
(5) The size of equine operations. 
(6) The total acreage devoted to equine operations. 
(7) The value of equine-related assets. 
(8) The number of equines and owners participating in various activities within the State. 
(9) An analysis of the economic impact of the existing exhibition facilities including the Hunt Horse Complex, the Senator Bob Martin Horse Complex, the WNC Agricultural Center, and the Carolina Horse Park. 
(10) An analysis of the programs, contributions, and industry support provided by the North Carolina State University College of Veterinary Medicine and other equine programs, at both private and public education institutions including the College of Agriculture and Life at North Carolina State University, Martin Community College, and St. Andrews College. 
(11) An analysis of the economic impact of breeding, training, and other horse operations. 
(12) An analysis of the economic impact of services provided to the equine industry including farrier, veterinary, design and planning, farm management and consulting, show management, and other services related to equines and equine operations. 
(13) An analysis of the economic impact, including manufacturing, agricultural production and employment, and wholesale and retail sales, of the purchase of equines, feed and grain, hay, tack and other horse equipment, riding clothes, insurance, vehicles and trailers, farm and pasture inputs, capital improvements such as barns, sheds and fencing, and real estate, including planned equestrian communities. 
(14) An analysis of the economic impact of other recreational uses of equines, including trail riding, camping with horses, therapeutic riding programs, other recreational activities, and equine-related agritourism.
(15) An analysis of the impact of the equine industry on State and local governments including the generation of tax revenues. 
SECTION 3. The Agricultural Advancement Consortium, in developing a plan to maximize the economic impact of the equine industry, shall: 
(1) Evaluate existing equine-related facilities, programs, and services in the State and make recommendations for enhancing those facilities, programs, and services so as to maximize their economic impact on the State. 
(2) Identify opportunities for the growth of the equine industry, including the production of feed crops, improved pasture, and high quality horse hays, attracting industry engaged in the production of horse-related products, equipment, and pharmaceuticals, the addition of exhibition and show facilities, including the development of a world class equestrian park, and other horse-related programs, activities, and facilities, and evaluate the potential economic contribution to the State's economy of each of these potential undertakings. 
(3) Evaluate the need to create an equine industry board tasked with the market development, education, publicity, research, and promotion of the North Carolina equine industry and other such measures it deems appropriate to promote the objectives, findings, and recommendations of the equine industry survey and analysis. 
(4) Evaluate the laws, rules, and policies that impact equine owners and persons engaged in equine activities, including land-use policies, preservation of trails, use of State recreational facilities, and tax credits and make recommendations directed toward making North Carolina more attractive to equine operations and activities. 
SECTION 4. The Agricultural Advancement Consortium may contract with other agencies of State government, any of the constituent institutions of The University of North Carolina, and private consultants as it deems necessary and advisable in its conduct of the assessment and plan development. The Agricultural Advancement Consortium shall complete its work within 12 months of the funds becoming available and shall file a report containing the results of the assessment of the equine industry and its plan for maximizing the economic impact of the equine industry with the Chairs of the Joint Legislative Commission on Governmental Operations and the Chairs of the Senate and House Appropriations Committees.

</file>

<file= AmE06_H05>

7.110 Power to secure information -- Coercing production of evidence -- Cooperation of other agencies -- Cooperation with other states -- Conference of Commissioners on Uniform State Laws -- Subcommittee and citizens' committee reports and recommendations. (1) The Commission, its co-chairmen or director, any other member of the General Assembly authorized by the director, or any employee authorized by the director, shall have access to all public records as provided in KRS 61.870 to 61.884, of every agency, division or department of state government, and of any agency or institution, public or private, which has been the recipient of public funds. The Commission, its co-chairmen or director, any other member of the General Assembly authorized by the director, or any employee authorized by the director, may utilize automated data processing procedures and equipment in the accession of public records, if such records exist in machine readable form. To effect the purposes of this section, the Commission shall promulgate such rules and regulations relating to the accession of public records as are necessary.  The Commission, its co-chairmen or director, any other member of the General Assembly authorized by the director, or any employee authorized by the director, may require information on oath of any person touching any matter which he is instructed to investigate, study or audit, and shall have the power to subpoena witnesses and records for such purpose, and otherwise compel the giving of evidence of any matter under study. If any person fails or refuses to testify or furnish documentary evidence concerning any matter with respect to which the Commission desires information pertaining to the studies in which it is engaged, the Franklin Circuit Court, on application of the Commission, may compel obedience by proceedings for contempt as in the case of disobedience of a subpoena issued from the Circuit Court or a refusal to testify therein. Every witness so subpoenaed under this section shall receive for his attendance the fee and mileage provided for witnesses in civil cases in Circuit Court, which shall be audited and paid upon the presentation of proper vouchers sworn to by the witness and approved by the Commission. (2) All state agencies and institutions shall cooperate with the Commission to effectuate the purposes of KRS 7.090 to 7.110 and shall submit copies of their annual or biennial reports to the Commission. (3) The Commission shall encourage and arrange conferences with officials of other states and of other units of government; carry forward the participation of this state as a member of the Council of State Governments, both regionally and nationally, and formulate proposals for cooperation between this state and other states. The Legislative Research Commission shall function as Kentucky's commission on interstate cooperation in carrying out the program of the Council of State Governments as it relates to Kentucky. (4) The Commission shall designate persons to represent Kentucky at the National Conference of Commissioners on Uniform State Laws. The Commission shall report the findings and recommendations of the national conference to the General 
Assembly. Any funds appropriated to the commissioners on uniform state laws shall be paid out on vouchers approved by the director of the Commission. (5) The Commission may establish such subcommittees and advisory citizens' committees as may be convenient or desired for the proper and efficient performance of its functions. Members of the General Assembly other than those who are members of the Commission designated to serve on subcommittees shall receive the same travel allowances and compensation for attending meetings as they do for attending meetings during a session of the General Assembly, except that each General Assembly member who is a chairman of a joint interim committee of the Legislative Research Commission shall be paid, in addition to such allowances and compensation, ten dollars ($10) per day for each committee meeting that he chairs. (6) The Commission shall report its findings, either with or without recommendations, to the Governor of the Commonwealth, and to each member of the General Assembly at least thirty (30) days prior to the convening of each regular session of the General Assembly. Effective: July 13, 1984 History: Amended 1984 Ky. Acts ch. 131, sec. 2, effective July 13, 1984. -- Amended 1982 Ky. Acts ch. 129, sec. 2, effective July 15, 1982. -- Amended 1976 Ky. Acts ch. 83, sec. 12, effective March 29, 1976. -- Amended 1954 Ky. Acts ch. 9, sec. 3, effective June 17, 1954. -- Created 1948 Ky. Acts ch. 15, sec. 3, effective June 17, 1948.

7.1105 Persons with disabilities or members of their families to be included in membership of boards and committees affecting them -- Prohibition against discrimination. (1) To ensure opportunities for participation by persons with disabilities and their families in the development of policies, support, and services that affect them: (a)  Persons with one (1) or more disabilities, or members of their families, who may be affected by or be the subject of an advisory board, committee, commission, task force, or ad hoc committee, shall be included in the membership of each advisory board, committee, commission, task force, or ad hoc committee of the Legislative Research Commission or the General Assembly. (b)  Persons with one (1) or more disabilities, or members of their families, shall be included in the membership of any advisory committee, board, or commission of the Legislative Research Commission or General Assembly whose mission or purpose is to make recommendations or to establish criteria for services and support for persons with disabilities or to develop standards that govern the services and support funded or administered by any state government agency. (c)  Persons with one (1) or more disabilities shall not be discriminated against and shall be given an equal opportunity for membership on any board, task force, or commission established by the Legislative Research Commission or the General Assembly consistent with and to the extent required by the Federal Americans with Disabilities Act. (2) As used in this section, "disability" has the same meaning as in KRS 12.450. (3) The requirements of this section shall affect all boards, committees, commissions, task forces, or ad hoc committees created on or after June 21, 2001. (4) For boards, committees, commissions, task forces, or ad hoc committees in existence prior to June 21, 2001, any vacancy arising on or after June 21, 2001, shall be filled pursuant to this section. (5) The requirements of this section shall only apply to an advisory board, committee, commission, task force, or ad hoc committee that is created specifically to develop or oversee policies or programs related to persons living with a disability or their families, except that the provisions of paragraph (c) of subsection (1) of this section shall apply. Effective: June 21, 2001 History: Amended 2001 Ky. Acts ch. 164, sec. 11, effective June 21, 2001. -- Created 1996 Ky. Acts ch. 336, sec. 5, effective July 15, 1996. Page 1 of 1 

7.1106 Membership on boards, task forces, and commissions and participation in programs consistent with the Federal Americans with Disabilities Act -- Disability awareness program. To ensure that Kentuckians with disabilities and their families enjoy full partnership in all programs, services, and activities throughout the Commonwealth: (1)  Consistent with this subsection, consideration shall be given to persons with one (1) or more disabilities for membership on any board, task force, or commission established by the Legislative Research Commission or the General Assembly. Persons with one (1) or more disabilities shall not be discriminated against and shall be given an equal opportunity for membership on any board, task force, or commission established by the Legislative Research Commission or the General Assembly consistent with and to the extent required by the Federal Americans with Disabilities Act; (2)  Individuals with disabilities shall be given an equal opportunity to participate in programs, services, and activities established by the Legislative Research Commission consistent with and to the extent required by the Federal Americans with Disabilities Act; (3)  If not already a part of staff development training, a program shall be established within the Legislative Research Commission with a disability awareness component; and (4)  If program evaluation criteria are utilized by the Legislative Research Commission, the criteria may include in the measures of performance, the number of individuals served by the program, service, or activity. Effective: June 21, 2001 History: Created 2001 Ky. Acts ch. 164, sec. 10, effective June 21, 2001. Page 1 of 1 

7.111 Right of access to information, when. (1) The Kentucky State Police, Department of Corrections, the Department of Juvenile Justice, the Cabinet for Health and Family Services, and the Administrative Office of the Courts shall provide access to their databases and the centralized criminal history record information system and the data contained therein to other criminal justice agencies, including criminal justice statistical analysis centers, and to the Legislative Research Commission. The right of access granted herein shall not include the right to add to, delete, or alter data without permission of the agency holding the data. (2) Criminal justice agencies and the Legislative Research Commission shall not make public information on an individual person's criminal history record where such record is protected by state or federal law or regulation. (3) The Legislative Research Commission shall have access to information which does not identify an individual person when determined by the director of the Legislative Research Commission to be necessary for a legislative purpose. (4) The Legislative Research Commission shall have access to individual persons' criminal history records subject to the following provisions: (a)  Access shall not include information on federal offenses or convictions; (b)  Access shall not include information on out-of-state convictions; and (c)  Requests for the release of the information shall be approved by the Legislative Research Commission by vote at a meeting of the Commission. Effective: June 20, 2005 History: Amended 2005 Ky. Acts ch. 99, sec. 73, effective June 20, 2005. -- Amended 1998 Ky. Acts ch. 606, sec. 11, effective July 15, 1998. -- Amended 1992 Ky. Acts ch. 211, sec. 2, effective July 14, 1992. -- Created 1986 Ky. Acts ch. 389, sec. 4, effective July 15, 1986.
7.112 Information to be provided free of charge. Any public officer or official, agency, or organization of state or local government required or requested to furnish information or data to the Legislative Research Commission, a subcommittee, task force, or other body associated therewith shall do so without any fees or charges of any kind for the information or data or any cost associated with its gathering, processing, or production. Effective: July 15, 1988 History: Created 188 Ky. Acts ch. 231, sec. 2, effective July 15, 1988.
7.115 Testimony of members of interim subcommittees of Legislative Research Commission. The chairmen and members of the interim subcommittees of the Legislative Research Commission may, subject to the approval of the Commission, appear and testify before committees of the Congress of the United States on all matters involving federal-state relations and on matters which concern the authority or interests of the states. The chairmen and members of the interim subcommittees shall receive the same travel expenses and compensation for appearing before congressional committees as they receive for attending meetings of their respective interim subcommittees. Effective: June 21, 1974 History: Amended 1974 Ky. Acts ch. 308, sec. 3, effective June 21, 1974. -- Created 1972 Ky. Acts ch. 224, sec. 1, effective June 16, 1972.
7.117 Legislative drafting communications not subject to disclosure -- Application. (1) A member of the General Assembly is immune from disclosing in a civil or criminal court proceeding, or in an administrative or legislative proceeding, any communication: (a)  Made by the member of the General Assembly to a member of the staff of the Legislative Research Commission, or to a member of the staff of the General Assembly, with regard to a request for legislative drafting of bills or resolutions or amendments thereto or to any information surrounding such a request; or (b)  Received from a member of the staff of the Legislative Research Commission, or from a member of the staff of the General Assembly, with regard to a request for legislative drafting of bills or resolutions or amendments thereto or to any information surrounding such a request.

</file>

<file= AmE06_H06>

The total available in FY
2006 is about $880,000. The HMCRP Oversight
Panel, appointed by TRB, held its first meeting
late this year to establish operating procedures
and to prioritize research needs.
COMMERCIAL TRUCK
AND BUS SAFETY
SYNTHESIS PROGRAM
CTBSSP is a cooperative research program sponsored
by FMCSA and administered by TRB. The
program was authorized in late 2001 to support
FMCSA's safety research programs.
The annual level of funding provided by
FMCSA - typically $100,000 to $400,000 - 
determines the number of synthesis studies the
program will initiate. The reports summarize
current practice in a specific technical area in
commercial truck and bus safety, usually through
a literature search and a survey of organizations
such as state DOTs, enforcement agencies, commercial
truck and bus companies, or other
appropriate groups. The program is modeled
after the successful synthesis programs of
NCHRP and TCRP. The primary users of the
syntheses are practitioners who are facing the
issues or problems with diverse approaches in a
variety of settings.
A program oversight panel monitors CTBSSP
and program procedures; selects synthesis topics
annually, after periodic industrywide solicitations;
refines synthesis scopes; selects researchers
to prepare each synthesis; reviews products; and
makes publication recommendations.
The program oversight panel has authorized
15 synthesis topics. Five syntheses were completed
this year and are expected to be published in
early 2007:
• Commercial Motor Vehicle Driver Training
Curricula and Delivery Methods and Their
Effectiveness;
• Commercial Motor Vehicle Carrier Safety Management
Certification;
• The Role of Safety Culture in Preventing Commercial
Motor Vehicle Crashes;
• The Impact of Behavior-Based Safety Techniques
on Commercial Motor Vehicle Drivers;
and
• Health and Wellness Programs for Commercial
Vehicle Drivers.
Strategic Highway Research Program II
The U.S. Congress authorized the second
Strategic Highway Research Program
(SHRP II) in August 2005 to address complex
goals that require integrated and atypical
approaches to reducing crashes, renewing the
transportation infrastructure, increasing highway
capacity, and providing reliable travel
times. The first SHRP was conducted between
1987 and 1993; SHRP II was originally proposed
as a 9-year, $450 million program. As
authorized, the program is funded at approximately
$150 million over 7 years and expects to
award approximately $110 million or more in
research contracts.
SHRP II is being conducted under a memorandum
of understanding among the American
Association of State Highway and Transportation
Officials (AASHTO), the Federal Highway
Administration (FHWA), and the National
Research Council, TRB's parent organization. In
late March 2006, first-year funding for SHRP II
became available through an agreement with
FHWA, initiating an ambitious schedule of
activities to staff the program, establish committees,
and refine research plans. The scope of the
original research plans has been adjusted to
reflect the reduction in funding and will continue
to evolve in response to research findings,
emerging opportunities, and potential funding
fluctuations.
FOCUS AREAS
Safety
Estimated funding: $44 million;
11 planned projects
SHRP II safety research will take advantage of
unprecedented opportunities to improve highway
safety through advanced technologies. Most
highway safety research has focused on crashes
and on how changes in vehicles and roads could
improve safety. SHRP II safety research will focus
on driver behavior and will collect data on precrash
and noncrash circumstances.
The research will quantify the interactions of
drivers, roads, vehicles, and environmental conditions
and will develop objective measures of
crash risk. An ambitious effort will use on-board
recorders to capture data on 2,000 to 3,000 volunteer
drivers, their vehicles, the environment,
and the roadways. Site-based technologies and
instrumented vans also will be deployed. Analysis
of the data will have implications for effective
countermeasures to reduce the number and
severity of crashes.
Renewal
Estimated funding: $29 million;
28 planned projects
The U.S. highway system is aging and must be
rebuilt while in service. Research in the renewal
focus area therefore addresses the need to complete
highway projects quickly, with minimal disruption
to the community, and to produce facilities
that are long-lasting.
Identifying new technologies for locating
underground utilities; developing procedures to
speed the evaluation of designs and the inspection
of construction; and applying new methods
and materials for preserving, rehabilitating, and
reconstructing roadways and bridges are among
the goals for this focus area. Alternative strategies
for contracting, financing and managing projects,
and mitigating institutional barriers also are
part of the emphasis on rapid renewal.
Reliability
Estimated funding: $18 million;
12 planned projects
Improving the reliability of travel time predictions
can reduce the costs and frustrations of
traffic delays and can help address the problems
of roadway congestion. Research in the reliability
focus area will identify and analyze congestion
mitigation measures and practices at agencies
that have improved travel time reliability; develop
analytical procedures for estimating the benefits
and effectiveness of countermeasures; assess
the institutional architectures necessary for successful
operations programs; and develop local
and national programs to monitor reliability.
Capacity
Estimated funding: $18 million;
8 planned projects
The objective of the capacity focus area is to
develop a consistent framework for balanced,
collaborative decisions on enhancing transportation
capacity and to provide the tools for applying
the framework. The research will develop a
project evaluation process that will help stakeholders
balance the need to reduce delays caused
by conflicting demands with the need to produce
transportation solutions that support community,
economic, and environmental goals.
The research also will develop a structure
for a project's many contributors to share data
and knowledge. This will require identifying critical
points for decision making in various
processes, the data and knowledge essential for
these decisions, and successful methods of sharing
information.
MANAGEMENT
AND OVERSIGHT
TRB manages SHRP II in close cooperation with
FHWA and AASHTO. The SHRP II Oversight
Committee, appointed by the National Research
Council, has responsibility for all aspects of the
program's research activities. A technical coordinating
committee in each of the four focus areas is responsible for recommending the research plan
and for monitoring the conduct of the research.
Small groups of technical experts are convened
as necessary to draft research project
statements to inform requests for proposals
(RFPs). Members of these committees and
groups are knowledgeable and experienced professionals
in transportation and related fields,
are recruited from around the nation, and serve
without compensation.
SCHEDULE OF ACTIVITIES
The first RFPs for each focus area were released
in September. The initial projects either will produce
analytic methods and study designs for
follow-on research or will identify specific needs
in technology, data, and knowledge for the projects
that follow.
Starting in 2007, RFPs will be issued twice
each year, in June and December, with notices
posted in the TRB e-newsletter and website.
Contract awards will go out in August and February.
SHRP II will publicize its annual research
program in January of each year.

PROGRAM STAFFING
Start-up activities and the work of the program's
first year have been accomplished by a core team
of experienced staff members. New expertise will
be added as the SHRP II staff reaches its full
complement. Currently, the staff includes:
• Neil Hawks, a manager in the first SHRP and
recently director of TRB's Special Programs
Division, serves as director of SHRP II.
• Ann Brach, Senior Program Officer and
director of the study that defined the need
and proposed the goals for SHRP II, is deputy
director.
• Stephen Andrle, recently director of the Center
for Transportation Research and Education
at Iowa State University, heads the SHRP
II capacity focus area.
• Kenneth Campbell, formerly with the Oak
Ridge National Laboratory and the University
of Michigan Transportation Research Institute,
staffs the safety focus area.
• Walter Diewald, Senior Program Officer and
recently study director in the TRB Division of
Studies and Information Services, is staff officer
for the reliability focus area.
• Robert Raab, Senior Program Officer, is heading
up the renewal focus area while the
staffing process continues.
• Monica Starnes, Senior Program Officer, is
working primarily in the renewal focus area.
She previously worked for the Applied
Physics Lab at Johns Hopkins University and
for the National Institute of Standards and
Technology.
• Linda Mason serves as the SHRP II Communications
Officer.
• Jo Ann Coleman and Makeeya Hazelton are
Senior Program Assistants. Coleman has
worked as an analyst for the U.S. Department
of Transportation and as transaction specialist
at Remax Allegiance,Woodridge, Virginia.
Hazelton was supervisor of customer service
for TRB's Publications Sales and Affiliates Services
department.
• Connie Woldu is the program's Administrative
Coordinator.
Administration and Finance
The TRB Administration and Finance Division
provides financial, technological, and
administrative support for TRB staff; financial
oversight of the contracts and grants that support
the work of TRB; expenditure controls;
administration of publications sales and distribution;
maintenance of the benefits and services
for sponsor and affiliate organizations; and liaison
to the administrative and financial offices of
the National Academies.
FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
The division manages the contracts and grants
that support TRB's work, prepares budgets for
continuing operations and individual projects,
and controls expenditures. TRB's total income
and expenditures have increased consistently
each year to more than $60 million (see graph,
page 51). A statement of income and expenditures
appears on pages 52 - 53.
AFFILIATE AND SPONSOR
SERVICES
TRB's core technical activities have five levels of
support: student affiliates, individual affiliates,
organizational affiliates, sustaining affiliates, and
sponsors. All affiliates and sponsors contribute to
the support of TRB activities through annual fees
determined by the level of services selected.
Individual and student affiliates' benefits
include reduced registration fees for the TRB
Annual Meeting, complimentary subscription to
TR News, discounts on most TRB books and
reports, use of the TRB library, and assistance
with the use of TRB computer-based information
services. Individual and student affiliates
also may subscribe to publications at a substantially
reduced rate through a selective distribution
program.
Organizational affiliates include government
agencies, academic organizations, private organizations,
and consultants committed to the
advancement of knowledge about the nature and
performance of transportation systems and system
components. In addition to the range of
benefits that individual affiliates receive, organizational
affiliates receive most publications at no
cost, as well as complimentary registrations for
the TRB Annual Meeting. Organizational affiliate
contributions range from $2,850 to $7,100,
depending on the level of benefits selected.
Sustaining affiliates are agencies and organizations - 
including individual corporations and
businesses - that support TRB at a level considerably
higher than the direct cost of all the services
and publications received. The minimum
annual contribution is $15,000.
Sponsors are the major source of financial
support for TRB's core technical activities. Federal,
state, and local government agencies and professional
societies and organizations that represent
industry groups are eligible to be TRB
sponsors. Fees and services are negotiated to
serve the sponsor's needs and to provide funda mental support for the Board's programs and
activities of interest to the entire transportation
community. The minimum annual sponsor fee is
$60,000. Sponsors are also represented on the
TRB Executive Committee. (See pages 58 - 59 for
a list of TRB sponsors and sustaining affiliates.)
PUBLICATIONS SALES
AND DISTRIBUTION
TRB's timely distribution of publications disseminates
transportation research and technology
results worldwide. TRB also releases selected
publications - some exclusively - in electronic
format.
A list of TRB publications issued from January
1 through December 31, 2006, appears on
pages 55 - 57.
WEB AND STRATEGIC
APPLICATIONS
The TRB Information Technology unit develops
and supports many of the applications used by
TRB's divisions and serves as the liaison for computer
network infrastructure to the National
Academies' Information Technology Services
office. The unit's major activities in 2006 involved
the planning and updating of TRB's website for
transfer to a new server environment.At the same
time, the National Academies relocated its operations
center - including the TRB servers - to a
new remote facility.
The unit implemented a new version of Web-
Board, TRB's online forum for discussions, information
sharing, and data storage.1 The package now consolidates access to web boards, conferences,
and messages on a single web page for
easy navigation and can be tailored for user preferences
and needs.
Activities planned for 2007 include updates
to the electronic bookstore, enhancements to
TRB affiliate and participant data management
systems, and implementation of a new content
management system.

</file>

<file= AmE06_H07>

RESOURCE OPTIONS
Metropolitan's consideration of resource options to supply CRA pumping requirements focuses on
renewable and conventional resources. As electric industry restructuring continues, Metropolitan may
consider other options, as they become available.
Historically, Metropolitan has been able to meet its CRA pumping energy needs using economy energy
purchases whenever necessary. This has been facilitated by WSPP membership which began in December
1990. Metropolitan does not expect that economy energy will be required to supplement Metropolitan's
existing resources over the period from 2007-2017. However, alternate sources of energy have been
considered for analysis after 2017 or in case greater than the Expected CRA Delivery levels should occur in
the future. Metropolitan's consideration of alternative pumping energy resources and efficiency measures
must: 1) Be consistent with the schedule of Metropolitan's resource requirements; and 2) Reduce the
expected cost of meeting pumping loads on the CRA or provide other benefits, such as increased system
reliability.
In addition to alternative sources of energy, Metropolitan has identified and continues to evaluate energy
efficiency and operating measures which may reduce energy requirements, or improve the reliability of
CRA operations.
Existing Renewable Generation onMetropolitan's System:
Metropolitan owns and operates approximately 122 MW of eligible renewable generation, as further
described below, and strongly supports efforts to promulgate the development of additional generation from
renewable resources in California. Some of these renewable resources currently help serve the CRA pump
load through the Edison exchange arrangement as previously discussed. As these existing contracts
terminate under their own terms, Metropolitan is re-evaluating their use as future options for CRA supplies,
which may be described in the annual action plans.
15 small hydro generating plants have been integrated into Metropolitan's water distribution system since
the early 1990s. Generation from these plants is sold under existing contractual agreements with Pacific Gas
and Electric Company, Edison, and DWR. During the first half of 2001, the State of California was
concerned of a potential power shortage during the summer of 2001. Metropolitan responded to an
emergency generation program offered by the California Energy Commission (CEC) to have new generation
on line by June 1, 2001 by adding generation capability at its 800,000 AF reservoir, Diamond Valley Lake
(DVL). The DVL reservoir, completed in 2002, was originally installed with 12 vertical turbine pumps.
With control system changes, these pumps were converted to turbine generating units and currently have a
total dependable capacity of 21 MW. Energy from DVL is sold in the spot energy market.
All 16 plants have been registered with the CEC as renewable resources. Ten plants are certified to meet
Renewable Portfolio Standard goals for Edison and PG&E. The chart below summarizes the interrelationship
between energy production from these 16 existing plants, with a total Capacity of 122 MW, and
water delivery requirements.
Potential Renewable Resources:
Metropolitan is investigating the feasibility of adding at least two new renewable hydro plants: (1) a third
unit at the Foothill power plant which currently has two 4.5 MW units; and (2) a pressure control facility
along the planned Inland Feeder Project near Diamond Valley Lake. This planned Inland Feeder Project,
expected to be in service by 2011 should result in minimizing if not eliminating the need to pump water into
Diamond Valley Lake after constructed.
Four wind measurement instruments were installed at the Julian Hinds Pumping Plant along the CRA in
2005. The data provided by these instruments will be used to evaluate the Hinds site as a future location for
wind turbines. Other CRA sites that will also be evaluated for wind energy include the Gene and Iron
pumping plants.
Resource Evaluation Criteria
Metropolitan's energy resource requirements may vary significantly from one year to another. Since
Metropolitan's year-to-year energy requirements are difficult to forecast in more detail than presented
herein, no resource options have been screened from consideration solely due to the expected schedule of
energy availability. The primary criterion then becomes the estimated cost of the energy resource, and its
relationship to the forecasted range of Metropolitan's marginal cost of energy supplies.
Metropolitan's marginal cost of energy depends on the volume of water to be delivered through the CRA5.
Therefore, for up to annual deliveries of about 915,000 AF, Metropolitan's marginal cost of energy is
defined by the cost of the Hoover Power Plant and Parker Power Plant resources, as suggested by Table 8.
Metropolitan expects that in future years should deliveries exceed 915,000 AF, off-peak economy energy
purchases would represent Metropolitan's marginal energy cost. A forecasted range of the estimated cost of
these potential marginal energy supplies has been developed, and is shown in Table 10 and detailed in
Appendix 1.
Metropolitan considered a range in natural gas price escalation, and the uncertainty introduced by industry
restructuring, in developing the escalators used for economy energy in Table 10. The primary difference
between the Low Case and High Case is the future cost of natural gas, which is based on the Energy
Information Administration Energy Outlook 2006. In the Low Case rapid technological progress in
production and end-use efficiencies is assumed, with increased ultimate reserves and lower well-head gas
costs. The High Case assumes less success in production and reserve replacement, and that the increased
use of natural gas to reduce emissions from power plants, industrial boilers, and vehicles will lead to higher
prices.
A 30-year study period is used for cost comparisons. Based on the history of the last several years, and an
informal assessment of industry projections, a general inflation rate of 3.5 percent per year is assumed. A
discount rate of 5 percent, reflecting a margin of 1.5 percent over the assumed inflation rate, was also
applied. Metropolitan's actual cost of financing is currently less than 5 percent, and this rate is assumed to
provide a reasonable adjustment to acknowledge forecast uncertainty and risk.
Energy costs from the Hoover and Parker Power Plants are assumed to escalate at the general inflation rate
of 3.5 percent under both the High and Low Cases. Economy energy costs are assumed to escalate at 0.994
percent for the Low Case and 2 percent for the High Case.
Table 10 provides a forecasted range for Metropolitan's marginal cost of energy for CRA pumping. Which
resource is at the margin will depend on the amount of Colorado River water available to Metropolitan for
delivery through the CRA, the energy available from Parker and Hoover Power Plants, and the relative
economics of economy energy purchases or sales. For CRA deliveries less than 915,000 AF, Metropolitan
has sufficient or even surplus energy and no purchases are typically necessary. However, Metropolitan is
planning to maximize delivery of water through the CRA as allowed, and expects the marginal cost of
energy to be based on the prices to be paid for energy beyond the Hoover and Parker resources while the
contracts exist through 2017.
Table 11 provides the average cost of supplies and marginal cost of supplies for each delivery case. The
only case that requires marginal energy supplies is the 1,300,000 AF Maximum Delivery Case since there is
surplus energy for sales or use on the SWP for the other two delivery cases.
Power Resource Options
Metropolitan has considered a range of conventional and renewable supply options to replace or supplement
the supplies presently available to Metropolitan. That review considered the cost and characteristics of a
range of technologies. Western's Resource Planning Guide Reference Data Volume 5 was used, and official
energy statistics from the U.S. Government6 the Energy Information Administration website published by
the Department of Energy were evaluated.
Renewable technologies which were investigated include:
• Wind
• Geothermal
• Solar Thermal
• Photovoltaic
Conventional and non-renewable technologies which were considered include:
• Conventional Combined cycle (CC)
• Combustion turbine (CT)
• Coal-fired steam
Figure 3 and Appendix 2 provide a comparison of resource costs under the Low Case. Under this scenario,
the cost of each alternative conventional and renewable resource option is higher than Metropolitan's
weighted forecast of marginal cost of energy except for the Maximum Delivery Case which is not expected
to occur in the next five years.
Figure 4 and Appendix 2 present a comparison of levelized energy costs under the High Case. As in the
Low Case, Metropolitan's weighted forecast of marginal cost of energy is lower than the cost of each
alternative supply-side resource except for the Maximum Delivery Case which is not expected to occur in
the next five years.
Efficiency and LoadManagement Options
As discussed, Metropolitan will generally schedule as much water as is available and allowed for delivery
through the CRA. The nature of Metropolitan's load on the CRA limits the number of demand-side
management options that are applicable, and also simplifies the analysis that must be completed to
determine cost-effectiveness. In contrast, a retail electric utility must consider multiple factors including
customer load characteristics, appliance saturations, participation rates, free ridership, differential costs to
participants and non-participants, measure screening criteria, program design, marketing and evaluation.
These requirements are substantially simplified for Metropolitan.
Each of Metropolitan's member agencies will be similarly affected by Metropolitan's decisions regarding
demand-side management options on the CRA. All member agencies will implicitly participate. All costs
will be directly incurred by Metropolitan, making the analysis a simple comparison of the cost of energy
saved by efficiency measures under consideration, as compared to the cost of energy that would be
purchased in the alternative. Metropolitan has established a schedule in the action plan to monitor and
report on the performance of the efficiency measures planned and implemented.
Pumping Plant Rehabilitation - The objective of Metropolitan's pumping plant rehabilitation program was to
improve pumping efficiency and system reliability by restoring pumps, transformers, motors and other
systems. The cost of the five-year program was $33.3 million, with savings of as much as 100 GWh per
year at full CRA operation. The program was completed in 1993.
Improvement in System Efficiency - In addition to increasing pump efficiency and reducing transformer
losses, the pumping plant rehabilitation program provided better data regarding flow rates and net-head so
that system efficiency can be monitored on a continuous basis. The rehabilitated pumps were balanced to a
uniform pumping capacity to minimize the need for throttling head gates at the pumping plants, thereby
improving efficiency. Metropolitan has conducted system flow tests at the five pumping plants using
different unit combinations for multiple CRA flow rates. Information from these tests was used to assist in
identifying a balanced CRA flow condition, and the most cost-effective mode of operation of the CRA.
SCADA System - The CRA operation is coordinated from the Gene Dispatch Control Center (GDCC)
located near the intake to the CRA (Refer to Figure 1). Metropolitan owns and operates a microwave
communication system which provides communications for the CRA operations.
Under the existing operating guidelines, the GDCC which is staffed 10 hours per day, seven days per week
by Metropolitan personnel, has the responsibility of monitoring and coordinating the flow control of the
CRA pumping operation. During the unstaffed 14 hours per day, the CRA operation is monitored by the
individual pumping plant's and GDCC's standby personnel via a paging system. The transmission and
distribution switching are coordinated from the GDCC. The real-time scheduling and accounting is
performed at the Operations Control Center located at Eagle Rock, California which is staffed 24 hours per
day and receives the pumping schedule changes from the GDCC. All changes and control operations are
done at the GDCC. After hours requests go to a GDCC standby operator via a paging system which is sent
to the related plant(s) standby operators.
Metropolitan has a Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) system. There are several benefits
from the SCADA system including the ability to more flexibly schedule energy from alternate sources on a
real-time basis. Improved emergency response, better control of water deliveries, reduced purchased
power costs, and a better database for future forecasting are also provided.
Other benefits of the SCADA system include a better indication of real-time load requirements to make
decisions on economy energy purchases.

</file>

<file= AmE06_H08>

In response to a Congressional mandate, the following section summarizes actions taken by some key international organizations to eliminate trafficking in persons (TIP) and sexual exploitation from their ranks. The vast majority of personnel performing peacekeeping missions conduct themselves honorably, but many cases of sexual exploitation have been documented. Young women and girls are left traumatized, infected with HIV/AIDS and other sexually transmitted diseases, or pregnant as a result.
International organizations and governments should uphold the highest standards of conduct for personnel involved in peacekeeping or humanitarian missions. Pursuant to Congressional mandate, following is a summary of how key international organizations are responding to this crisis of criminal irresponsibility and degradation. 
UNITED NATIONS (UN) 
The United Nations was forced to undertake drastic measures to overhaul its system of monitoring gross abuses by its military and civilian personnel in light of 150 allegations of sexual exploitation on the part of peacekeepers stationed in the Democratic Republic of Congo (known at the UN as MONUC). In October 2004, the UN Secretary General dispatched a team to MONUC headed by Jordan's Permanent Representative to the UN, Prince Zeid Ra'ad Al Hussein, to conduct an assessment of the magnitude of the problem among the 11,000 UN soldiers and 1,200 civilians serving there. In its internal report, the team concluded there was "zero compliance with zero tolerance," referring to the official policy of zero tolerance for sexual exploitation and abuse. The instances involved rape in some cases, and prostitution with children and adult women for money (between $1-$3), food, or jobs. After some peacekeepers raped girls, they tried to disguise it as prostitution by giving them money or food. 
The team also concluded that there was little awareness of UN standards of conduct, inadequate recreational facilities for soldiers, and protracted periods of separation for personnel from their families and communities - factors that contribute to a climate of exploitation. 

Policy 

In response to a major scandal involving humanitarian personnel at a refugee camp in West Africa in 2002, the UN Secretary General issued a bulletin in 2003 entitled "Special measures for protection from sexual exploitation and abuse." In the bulletin, sexual exploitation and abuse are characterized as acts of serious misconduct and are grounds for disciplinary action, including dismissal. It prohibits sexual activity with children under 18 years of age and with any other beneficiaries of assistance; it prohibits use of money, employment, goods, or services in exchange for sexual favors. United Nations staff is obligated to report misconduct or suspicious activities. Heads of department, office, or mission are responsible for undertaking necessary prevention measures and taking action to address any allegations of misconduct. Evidence of misconduct can be forwarded to national authorities for criminal prosecution. The UN can terminate any cooperative agreements with non-UN entities or individuals found to be violating this policy. The Secretary General's Special Advisor on Sexual Exploitation and Abuse by UN Peacekeeping Personnel, Prince Zeid, recommended this bulletin be part of the required standards of conduct for troops and that these standards be incorporated in Memoranda of Understanding between the United Nations and each troop-contributing country. In June 2005, the UN General Assembly broadened Prince Zeid's recommendation to make it applicable to all peacekeeping personnel. 

Training 
The UN's Department of Peacekeeping Operations (DPKO) has a basic training module covering sexual exploitation and abuse, the UN's zero-tolerance policy, individual responsibilities, and the consequences of sexual misconduct. The training is mandatory for all UN personnel and is provided upon arrival at mission. Last October, DPKO distributed the module to troop-contributing countries for use in pre-deployment training. DPKO is not able to certify whether countries are using this training module. Two additional training modules are in development for mid-level managers and senior officials, respectively. DPKO developed a code of conduct video that has been translated into 10 languages and was distributed to troop-contributing countries. 

Discipline and Accountability 
Since early 2004, the UN conducted investigations involving 296 personnel, resulting in the repatriation of 137 military personnel, including six military commanders, and the dismissal of 17 civilians and 16 police. Most of these cases occurred at UN missions in Africa. The UN is amending its staff regulations and contractual agreements to classify sexual exploitation and abuse as serious misconduct and to allow the Secretary General to discipline and dismiss personnel. The UN is revising performance appraisals of managers and commanders in light of these regulations. Military personnel assigned to international peacekeeping missions are also subject to disciplinary action by their governments. The UN's Office of Internal Oversight services (OIOS) assumed the lead for investigating all sexual exploitation and abuse allegations. 
DPKO has established conduct and discipline units at its headquarters and eight missions to prevent misconduct, to enforce the UN standards of conduct, and to coordinate with OIOS. DPKO is currently negotiating a draft model memorandum of understanding with troop-contributing countries that, among other provisions, lays out the responsibilities of the UN and the relevant countries with regard to preventing sexual exploitation and abuse, investigating cases of misconduct, disciplining personnel, and compensating victims. This document will probably take many months to finalize, considering 190 nations are involved, and considering the lengthy UN bureaucratic process. 
Thus, it may take months or even years before an effective measure is put into practice. A group of legal experts appointed by the Secretary General has finalized its recommendations on how to ensure UN staff and experts on mission are not exempt from the consequences of criminal acts committed at their duty station, nor unjustly penalized. A new group of legal experts is being convened to determine whether the Secretary General's 2003 bulletin can bind troop contingent members prior to concluding the revised Memoranda of Understanding with troop-contributing countries. There is no victim compensation program, although the December 2005 draft of the model memorandum contains strong provisions on this issue. Rules do exist requiring UN staff to honor court orders for child support payments. However, we have no information demonstrating this has been implemented in sexual exploitation and abuse cases. 

Follow-on Action 
Prince Zeid's report and subsequent comments by the Secretary General have provoked many proposals to bolster the United Nations' control over sexual exploitation. The United States Government generally supports these measures and will work with the UN Secretariat, and within the Security Council, to implement recommendations that are effective and consistent with U.S. law and regulations. The following are the most promising, albeit difficult, proposals to implement: 
•Set up a UN DPKO monitoring mechanism to certify that troop-contributing countries have completed pre-deployment training on the UN's zero-tolerance policy. 
•Issue an annual report from the Secretary General to the Security Council on the status of investigations and disciplinary actions taken by the UN and the affected troop contributing countries. 
•Finalize, without delay, a model memorandum of understanding between the UN and troop-contributing countries laying out the responsibilities of the UN and the troop-contributing countries to prevent trafficking, sexual exploitation, and abuse. 
•Ensure OIOS investigators have the requisite skills, training, and experience to investigate sexual crimes, especially when the victims are children. 
•Monitor, regularly, remote areas where peacekeepers are assigned to ensure compliance with the zero-tolerance policy. 
All troop-contributing countries have a responsibility to undertake serious measures to prevent and punish any incidences of trafficking, sexual exploitation, and abuse by personnel regardless of whether prostitution is regulated or tolerated in the troop-contributing country. Such measures may include but are not limited to: 
•Reviewing national laws and regulations to allow nationals participating in international peacekeeping or humanitarian missions to be punished or court martialed for engaging in trafficking, prostitution, sexual exploitation, or abuse in a foreign country that has criminalized these activities. 
•Assigning national investigative officers or investigative entities to coordinate, as appropriate, with the OIOS on investigations involving its nationals. 
•Performing background checks of military and civilian personnel to ensure they do not have a prior criminal record. 
•Assessing military commanders or civilian managers' performance in creating a climate of responsibility among subordinates at peacekeeping or humanitarian missions. This is a key component in preventing abuses. 
•Increasing number of women military and civilian peacekeepers, including in management positions. 
•Conducting mandatory pre-deployment training on anti-trafficking, sexual exploitation, and abuse policies. 
•Providing decent welfare and recreation facilities for national contingents at the missions and promoting organized intramural activities for peacekeepers during off-duty hours. Some national contingents living in squalid conditions have limited recreation facilities. 
•Encouraging military leadership to collect and maintain DNA samples of military personnel prior to deployment to international peacekeeping missions in the event allegations of sexual misconduct are made against its personnel. 
•Providing compensation to victims, including child support payments.
NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (NATO) 

Policy 
In June 2004, NATO member states and 19 partner nations adopted a Policy to Combat Trafficking in Persons. The provisions include a commitment for each country to: review its national legislation; ratify and implement the UN Convention Against Transnational Organized Crime and its supplementary protocol on trafficking in persons; conclude bilateral and multilateral agreements to prevent and counter human trafficking; provide appropriate antitrafficking training to all personnel taking part in NATO-led operations; support host country authorities in anti-trafficking investigations; incorporate contractual provisions prohibiting contractors from engaging in trafficking and impose penalties for failure to comply; and evaluate implementation of efforts as part of ongoing reviews. Since adoption of the policy, NATO's international military staff revised the Military Policy Guidance document to incorporate the policy's requirements on awareness and education. All NATO staff are bound by a special directive issued by NATO's Secretary General. Anti-trafficking directives will be included in all future NATO operational plans. 
Allies continue to review the NATO policy to enhance it. Allies are considering designating a NATO Senior Coordinator for Combating Trafficking in Human Beings to work with member states and partner nations on effective implementation of NATO's zero-tolerance policy on human trafficking. Also, allies are examining how to ensure confidentiality for personnel or private citizens who report suspected incidences of trafficking, particularly within small missions. 

Training 

NATO has created three anti-trafficking awareness training modules for all troops, commanders, and military police personnel. These modules, available on-line, are based in part on the U.S. Department of Defense's training modules. In 2005, the NATO school and the NATO Defense College began incorporating anti-trafficking into its curriculum for both senior commanders and staff officers. The NATO missions in the Balkans provide induction training for all personnel on a regular basis. While member states and partners have made a commitment to provide training for personnel participating in NATO-led operations, it is not clear to what extent they are all providing regular pre-deployment training. 

Discipline and Accountability 
There are no known instances of NATO international forces or international military staff involved in facilitating human trafficking. Member states and partners are responsible for disciplining personnel. NATO international forces or international military staff are subject to disciplinary action including dismissal if they support or facilitate trafficking. NATO conducts periodic mission reviews of NATO-led operations and can use this channel to report trafficking related incidences. NATO does not have a victim compensation program. 
ORGANIZATION FOR SECURITY AND COOPERATION IN EUROPE (OSCE) 

Policy 

The OSCE has policies to prevent personnel from engaging in human trafficking or sexual exploitation and abuse. The Code of Conduct for OSCE Officials addresses general conduct of mission members and is supplemented by a document titled "Staff Instruction 11" which specifically addresses preventing the promotion or facilitation of trafficking in persons. The staff instruction applies to all OSCE officials while on mission (including attending events in an official capacity). 
INTERNATIONAL PEACEKEEPERS 
The OSCE instruction specifically states, "Officials are not permitted to patronize any establishments or have professional or personal relationships with individuals with connections to trafficking." In December 2005, the OSCE Ministerial Council adopted a decision sponsored by the United States entitled "Ensuring the Highest Standards of Conduct and Accountability of Persons Serving on International Forces and Missions."

</file>

<file= AmE06_H09>

I am pleased to be here, where I worked as a Committee staff member some years ago, to testify on housing market developments and prospects. The Office of Federal Housing Enterprise oversight, OFHEO, has a strong interest in housing markets and particularly in house prices because they have a powerful effect on the credit quality of mortgage loans owned or guaranteed by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the Enterprises we regulate. 
Over the past five years, we have witnessed an extraordinary change in the relative price of houses. The general level of house prices soared 56 percent from the spring of 2001 to the spring of 2006. The prices of other goods and services rose much less, so that inflation-adjusted house prices are now 38 percent higher than 5 years ago. That exceeds the inflation-adjusted increase in the previous 26 years, going back to the beginning of OFHEO's data. 
A number of factors have contributed to these price gains. Long-term mortgage interest rates fell from about 8 percent in mid-2000 to generally less than 6 percent in the period from early 2003 to mid-2005. Short-term rates declined by more, and borrowers took advantage, as more of them took out adjustable-rate loans. Interest-only and negative amortization loans provided even lower monthly payments. The spread of these products helped stimulate demand, as did the rapid growth of subprime lending. In 2001, less than 10 percent of new mortgage securities were backed by subprime loans. In each of the past two years, subprime lending has amounted to more than 20 percent of that market. 
Demographics have also been favorable. Aging boomers are reaching their peak earning and investing years, with many interested in second homes for vacations or future retirement, and immigration has accelerated household formation. Supply constraints have made it difficult to meet the increased demand. Land use restrictions, environmental and economic impact studies, natural barriers, and existing high densities in some areas have lengthened the time necessary for builders to bring new houses on the market and raised the premiums paid for prime house locations. 
Finally, there is some evidence of speculation, as the share of loans made to investors has risen and turnover rates have been high, with anecdotes of property flipping becoming common. Certainly, the poor performance of the stock market early in this decade made an obvious contrast with the investment performance of houses, and that may have encouraged some to shift their investment focus. 
House price increases have been uneven across the nation, though. While homeowners in Indiana, Ohio, and Michigan have seen their house values over the past 5 years hardly budge in constant dollars, residents of Florida, California, and here in the District of Columbia have watched prices virtually double, even after adjusting for inflation. The coastal areas have generally had more vibrant economies, more in-migration, and more supply constraints. 
Over the past year, the pace of house price inflation over most of the country has moderated dramatically. The sharpest decelerations have come in some of the most superheated markets of a year ago, including Arizona, Nevada, California, and Hawaii in the West and DC, Delaware, Maryland, and Virginia in this area. Nationally, prices rose roughly 1.2 percent in the second quarter of this year, a rate that only slightly exceeds the 
inflation rate for other goods and services in the economy. For comparison, the appreciation rate in the second quarter of last year was approximately 3.6 percent. 
Housing markets in New England and the Midwest are showing some of the most significant regional weakness. The relatively anemic New England market has been cooling for the last two years. While Massachusetts, New Hampshire, and Maine saw some of the largest gains in the nation in the late 1990s and early 2000s, rates of price increase have dropped sharply since. Our latest data suggest that prices in those states were virtually unchanged in the second quarter of this year. 
Although appreciation rates in the Midwest were only slightly above baseline inflation levels throughout the latest boom, the rates have declined somewhat. Price performance in Indiana, Ohio, and Michigan, in particular, appears weak. Appreciation over the last year was less than three percent in all three states, and, in the latest quarter, prices actually declined. 
We are seeing continued price strength in select areas of the country. The areas affected by Hurricane Katrina, for example, have shown strong increases, presumably a result of the loss of housing stock. Prices in Louisiana, for example, rose nearly 12.5 percent between the second quarter of 2005 and the second quarter of 2006. Price appreciation in the second quarter of this year was more than double the national rate in that state. Over the past year, gains in several Katrina-affected cities, including Gulfport-Biloxi and Mobile, were between 15 and 18 percent, the largest one-year increases we have ever recorded for these cities. 
Select areas in Texas, as well as parts of the Pacific Northwest, also seem to have fared relatively well. At more than 3.6 percent, quarterly appreciation rates in Oregon, Idaho, and Washington state were more than three times the national average. 
Appreciation in oil-rich Texas areas like Odessa and Midland, also appears to have been strong. 
Other market indicators confirm the general chilling of housing markets across the nation. Particularly noteworthy is the swelling inventory of unsold houses on the market, which has risen to 4.5 million from levels generally below 3 million in 2003 and 2004. As sales rates have fallen at the same time, inventories are now more than 7 times monthly sales, the highest since the early 1990s. 
Historical patterns of price behavior in housing markets may provide some guidance about potential future developments. OFHEO's national House Price Index has never fallen over a period of a year or more, but it has come very close, and inflation-adjusted prices have fallen significantly, by 11 percent in the early 1980s and by 9 percent in the early 1990s. In the first instance, it took nearly 8 years for inflation-adjusted prices to regain the past peak and in the second case, almost 10 years. Certainly, a similar event is quite possible now.
Cycles in inflation-adjusted home prices have occurred in a much more pronounced way in some cities, such as Boston and Los Angeles. The cycles stem from the effects of local business cycles, the delays in the response of supply to increased prices, and to some extent from speculation. Over much of the country, fundamental factors have pushed up demand and accounted for at least a large portion of the price increases in recent years. However, increasing supply, higher interest rates, and a turn in investor-market psychology may cause prices in some markets to fall. In the past, significant nominal price declines generally have been associated with local or regional economic recession, but the exceptional size of some of the recent increases could make them vulnerable without a recession, especially if interest rates continue to rise. 
In the long run, I expect housing markets to perform well, especially if immigration continues at recent rates. An important caveat, though, is that healthy housing markets could soften seriously from an unexpected disruption in the ability of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to function effectively in secondary mortgage markets. OFHEO is currently focused on correcting the significant accounting, internal control, management, and corporate governance weaknesses identified at both companies through OFHEO examinations. While both companies have made progress, much more needs to be done. It is apparent that in order to ensure the long-run safety of these two GSEs, the regulatory framework must also be strengthened. OFHEO supports the enactment this year of legislation, currently before the full Committee, that will create a new regulator with adequate funding, bank-like regulatory and enforcement authorities and encompassing not only safety and soundness, but also mission regulation. 
Research and OFHEO's House Price Index 
I now would like to talk briefly about some of OFHEO's research activities related to measuring home price trends. OFHEO's work has been focused on our House Price Index (HPI), which we publish quarterly. We estimate quarterly price changes for single-family houses at the national level and for census divisions, states, and metropolitan statistical areas. We use data obtained from Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac on values of houses in repeat mortgage transactions. 
OFHEO is working hard to ensure that our house price index remains an accurate and reliable indicator for both internal and external use. Precise measurement of historical price movements is extremely important in measuring the credit exposure at Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, a critical part of OFHEO's regulatory duty. It is also important because mismeasurement may obscure indications of any accelerations or reversals in the housing cycle. Such information is valuable not just to OFHEO, but also to the other disparate entities and individuals that use our data. Government and private policy analysts, risk modelers at Wall Street firms, and even individual homeowners interested in tracking their home values all employ our data. Our historical index data, as well as related market commentary, are all available on OFHEO's website.
Accurately measuring house price movements is quite challenging. One of the fundamental difficulties stems from the fact that houses do not sell frequently. At best, sporadic measurements of home values are usually available. Also, homes obviously differ substantially in their size and quality. This heterogeneity means that the average sales price of properties reflect not only trends in house prices, but also changes in the mix of houses transacting. 
A final challenge is that home valuation measures are not always perfect indicators of true home values. For example, much of OFHEO's home value information is derived from appraisals produced in the home refinancing process. Such appraisals, for a variety of reasons, may not always accurately reflect true home values. 
OFHEO in fact is actively researching the issue of appraisal bias. The underlying research question to be addressed is: "How can appraisal bias be stripped from the OFHEO index without having to remove all appraisal data from OFHEO's calculations?" Although home price appraisals may systematically differ from purchase price information, their inclusion can provide valuable information about price trends, particularly for small cities where the availability of price data is at a premium. More fundamentally, to the extent that refinanced homes may have different attributes than other homes, the inclusion of refinance-related appraisals provides our models with a potentially broader sampling of appreciation patterns. 
Preliminary research suggests that a refined methodology that aims to remove appraisal bias from the HPI may reflect long-run historical price patterns that are quite similar to what has been observed in the usual HPI. Despite the similarity, however, OFHEO may pursue such a refinement because changes in the mix of refinance and purchase valuations can affect measured short-term price change patterns. 
Another issue of broad research and policy significance is the effect of home improvements on measured price trends. Some observers have wondered whether a significant share of the dramatic appreciation reflected in the OFHEO HPI has been caused by home remodeling activity as opposed to fundamental price increases. The concern has been motivated in part by a divergence between appreciation shown in the OFHEO index and house price growth reflected in a "constant-quality" index produced by the Census Bureau. 
Although the OFHEO index is generically classified as a constant-quality index, some recent appreciation may indeed reflect net quality improvements in the housing stock. Outside research coupled with as-yet unpublished internal OFHEO work nevertheless suggests that, even under generous assumptions concerning the impact of remodeling on home valuations, a relatively modest amount of appreciation is accounted for by what might be described as "quality drift." In short, the recent price run-ups are not mere illusions caused by the fact that Americans are buying bigger and better homes. 
While OFHEO does not publish home price forecasts, it maintains a strong interest in available information concerning future expectations. One potentially useful development in this area is the introduction of real estate futures exchanges.

</file>

<file= AmE06_H10>

Approximately fifteen employers for each group were identified, with the hope that at least eight to ten individuals
would attend. Some of the regions, as previously mentioned, had very limited lists that prohibited reaching this
goal. Additional recruitment methods were used to increase the number of participants. State Planning Project
Workgroup members were asked to provide contact information for potential participants. Flyers were distributed
to Workgroup members via email. Contact information for project staff was given out and Workgroup members
were encouraged to forward contact information for employers to them, and to distribute information about the
focus groups to interested individuals. Please refer to Appendix V for all marketing materials related to
recruitment.
During recruitment telephone calls, interested individuals were asked if they knew other local employers who might
be interested in participating. Flyers were provided to employers for distribution to fellow employers. Project staff
also contacted local and regional Chambers of Commerce for their assistance.
Workgroup members and their contacts helped to recruit participants for both the uninsured focus groups and the
insurance agent focus groups. Directors of free health clinics and community health centers helped project staff to
recruit participants for the uninsured focus groups. Insurance agent focus group participants were sought by
sending informational letters and maps to members of professional associations and insurance companies via email,
and by making announcements at association meetings.
Focus Group Locations
The locations for the employer focus groups were determined by using the regions from the survey strata utilized
for the surveys conducted in the first two waves of data collection, the Michigan Household Health Insurance
Survey and the Michigan Employer Health Insurance Survey. The survey strata are a variation on the regions used
by the Michigan State University State of the State Survey (SOSS). This was done so data collected in the surveys
for this project will be comparable to future SOSS surveys. For the Michigan Household and Employer Health
Insurance Surveys strata, the state was divided into seven regions. Those regions are: Upper Peninsula, Northern
Lower Peninsula, West Central, East Central, Southwest, Southeast, and the city of Detroit (refer to diagram A-1).
Although Detroit is within the Southeast region, because it is a unique urban city with a large population, for this
project Detroit was considered a separate region. For a complete listing of counties included in each region, see
Appendix I.
Within each region, the recruitment list from the Michigan Employer Health Insurance Survey was analyzed to
determine the most convenient location for participants, based on driving distance and accessibility. Initially, one
focus group was to be run in each of the seven regions in Michigan. In the Southeast region, two focus groups were
planned due to the large concentration of employers. The list of possible locations was submitted to MDCH and
project workgroups for their review.
Once the most appropriate city for the focus groups was identified for each region, contact with local businesses
was made to finalize a location. Most employer focus groups were held in the conference room of a hotel or
community college. The locations for the uninsured focus groups and insurance agent focus groups were provided
without charge by the agencies that assisted with recruiting. Uninsured individual focus groups were held in a
conference room or community room at local Federally Qualified Health Centers and free clinics for ease of
transportation and familiarity. The insurance agent focus groups were held in the conference room of an insurance
company and a health insurance association. The locations of all focus groups are presented in diagram A-2.
Schedule
Weather and geography were used to determine the focus group schedule. The employer focus groups in the Upper
Peninsula and Northern Lower Peninsula took place at the beginning of the project timeline to reduce the likelihood
of inclement weather. Focus groups were scheduled according to the project timeline and approved by MDCH.
Refer to chart A-3 for the full schedule of focus groups.
Data Collection
Two research team members staffed each focus group. One person functioned as the moderator of the group and
the other was the recorder. Team members alternated roles for the morning and afternoon sessions of the employer
focus groups. The moderator followed a script with introduction, background information, informed consent and
questions to provide a consistent structure. The moderator was responsible for timekeeping and keeping the
discussion on track. The moderator also took short handwritten notes during the discussion. The recorder took
detailed notes of the discussion using a laptop computer, and operated the audio-recording devices. Research staff
transcribed the tapes from the focus groups shortly after completion of each group.
Supplemental Telephone Interviews
Telephone interviews were conducted to supplement the information collected in the employer and insurance agent
focus groups. Many employers indicated during recruitment calls that they were interested in participating, but the
time commitment required to participate in the groups was prohibitive. Using the recruitment list for the focus
groups, contact information was loaded into Sawtooth's Ci3 Computer Assisted Telephone Interviewing (CATI)
software and a sample was generated for the calls. New sample records were added when contact information from
workgroup members was forwarded to project staff.
Employers were contacted after the focus group had been conducted in their region to see if they would participate
in a short telephone interview. Employers who indicated during the initial recruitment calls that they were
interested in participating, but did not attend, were prioritized for being contacted. The sample size for the
telephone interviews was 289 employers; 196 employers were attempted with a maximum of five attempts per
employer. On average, it took two attempts to complete the telephone interview. Only 12 employers that were
reached by phone refused to complete the interview. The goal for the telephone interviews was to have a total of
eight to ten employers offering insurance, and the same number of employers not offering insurance responds to the
interview in each region.
Interviewers used CATI software to manage the sample and the data. Two scripts were developed for the phone
interviews: one for employers offering health insurance and another for employers not offering health insurance.
The interviews were programmed into CATI and the instrument was tested. Both versions of the interview had the
same short introduction. The questions were open-ended, and interviewers used additional follow-up probes when
needed to gather specific information. All interviews were audio-recorded for quality control purposes. Data was
recorded by the interviewer into the CATI interviewing software. The data were then exported from CATI into
Excel and SPSS to analyze the themes.
Telephone interviews were also conducted with insurance agents in the West Central Region due to low attendance
at this focus group. Those interviews were conducted using the moderator script from the focus group. Interviews
were audio-recorded for quality control purposes and the tapes were transcribed.
Limitations
Like all research studies, this study's results must be considered in light of the limitations of the research
methodology. Focus groups are a way to gather the opinions and experiences of the individuals in the group.
When the results of multiple groups are compared, themes that are common to all groups may emerge. The results
may not represent the entire state or be generalized to a larger group. Focus group data cannot be quantified with
absolute measures or analyzed with statistical significance. The results must be reviewed from a qualitative frame
of reference only. Some of the information presented may appear to be inaccurate or inconsistent with fact. The
information presented is valid from the point of view of each participant, but is limited by each participant's
knowledge base and the accuracy of his or her perceptions. Even the inaccurate information can be seen as useful
to the reader as it reflects the participant's level of understanding on the issue and suggests areas where further
education on the topic may be needed.
Low levels of participation are also a limitation. With less than eight participants, a focus group discussion may be
more limited and less informative than would occur with the addition of more opinions into the dialogue. Through
conversations with employers and insurance agents, we learned that the time of year during which the focus groups
were held was a barrier to achieving goals for recruitment and attendance. For many insurance agents and
employers who offer benefits, the last two months of the year often comprise the open enrollment period for
benefits. There were other seasonal factors given as reasons for not attending, such as the holiday season for
employers in the retail industry, and the start of deer hunting season for employers in the more rural areas of the
state. When possible, focus groups were rescheduled. However, due to the project timeline, the focus groups had
to be completed by the end of 2005. The time commitment to participate was also viewed as a deterrent, especially
for owners of small businesses. In addition, employers who did not offer insurance were much less likely to attend
the focus group after signing-up than employers who did offer insurance.
The telephone interview method of collecting data was added to the protocol to ensure that enough information was
collected to generate themes for each group. Although the interview questions were open-ended and additional
probing was done, the telephone interview format is likely to produce less information than would be generated
through group discussion. The results presented in this report are a compilation of the information collected
through focus groups and telephone interviews.
Analysis
Focus group data were analyzed using notes and audio-tape recording. Team members created a document for the
insurance agent, uninsured consumers and employer focus groups. Each comment made by focus group
participants was reviewed by two team members, and placed into a document of overall themes. The team then
discussed the themes as a way to insure a sufficient degree of inter-rater reliability. Quotes from the respondents
were placed with the corresponding questions.
Upon completion of all telephone surveys, raw data were directly exported from CATI to Excel and SPSS where it
could be reviewed for common themes. Once the themes from the telephone interviews were developed, quotes
from the respondents were retrieved from the data output and through a review of the audiotapes. These comments
and quotes were then added to the overall document of themes created from the actual focus group sessions. The
major findings from insurance agents, uninsured consumers, and employers are reported separately.
Michigan's Health Insurance Market
Health insurance in Michigan has traditionally been provided through employer-sponsored benefits programs.
Because of the manner in which insurance rates are determined, large companies and those with younger employees
have an advantage because their workers represent less risk to insurance companies, and may therefore receive
lower rates through Health Maintenance Organizations (HMOs) and commercial insurance carriers. Blue Cross
Blue Shield of Michigan (BCBSM), as the insurer of last resort, must provide coverage to all individuals who can
afford to pay the premiums, regardless of their health status. According to the Office of Finance and Insurance
Services, in 2000 approximately 71% of the small group market was covered by BCBSM.
In the last decade, the health insurance market has been impacted by state and federal legislation, which regulates
the manner in which insurance rates can be determined, and provides for consumer protections. The passage of the
Federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) in 1996 created a market in which
commercial carriers must renew policies at the insured's request, except under certain conditions. Because of the
way in which rates are determined, insurance carriers and HMOs were able to raise their rates to high-risk groups to
encourage non-renewal. However, BCBSM could not use age, medical condition, or other case characteristics to
determine their rates. Reportedly, this led to a trend in the market where younger, healthier employees were
leaving the BCBSM pool to get lower rates with commercial carriers or chose to discontinue coverage, while older,
less healthy individuals were enrolling in BCBSM policies because they could not afford the alternatives.

</file>

<file= AmE06_H11>

7. Infrastructure

Internal fresh water resources per capita is the
sum of total renewable resources, which include
internal fl ows of rivers and groundwater
from rainfall in the country, and river
fl ows from other countries.
Population with sustainable access to an improved
water source is the percentage of population
with reasonable access to an adequate
amount of water from an improved source,
such as a household connection, public
standpipe, borehole, protected well or spring,
or rainwater collection. Unimproved sources
include vendors, tanker trucks, and unprotected
wells and springs. Reasonable access is
defi ned as the availability of at least 20 liters
a person a day from a source within 1 kilometer
of the user's dwelling.
Population with sustainable access to improved
sanitation is the percentage of the
population with at least adequate access to
excreta disposal facilities that can eff ectively
prevent human, animal, and insect contact
with excreta. Improved facilities range from
simple but protected pit latrines to fl ush toilets
with a sewerage connection. / e excreta
disposal system is considered adequate if it
is private or shared (but not public) and if it
hygienically separates human excreta from
human contact. To be eff ective, facilities
must be correctly constructed and properly
maintained.
Average nonrevenue water is the diff erence
between water supplied and water sold (that
is, the volume of water "lost") expressed as a
percentage of net water supplied.
Water supply failure for fi rms receiving water
is the average number of days per year that
fi rms experienced insuffi cient water supply
for production.
Average household tariff s for water services,
largest city are the average tariff s for wastewa ter services for household consumers in the
largest city.
Committed nominal investment in potable
water projects with private participation is annual
committed investment in potable water
projects with private investment.
Average annual offi cial development assistance
(ODA) disbursements for water and sanitation
are average annual ODA for water and
sanitation, including bilateral, multilateral,
and other donors.
Source: Data on fresh water resources are
from the World Bank's World Development
Indicators database. Data on access to water
and sanitation are from the World Health
Organization and United Nations Children's
Fund's Meeting the MDG Drinking Water
and Sanitation Target (www.unicef.org/wes/
mdgreport). Data on average nonrevenue
water and average household tariff s for water
services in the largest city are from the
International Benchmarking Network for
Water and Sanitation Utilities (IBNET). Data
on water supply failure are from World Bank
Investment Climate Surveys. Data on committed
nominal investment in potable water
projects with private participation are from
the World Bank's Private Participation in
Infrastructure database. Data on ODA disbursements
are from the Organisation for
Economic Co-operation and Development.

Total length of road network is the length
of motorways, highways, main or national
roads, secondary or regional roads, and other
roads.
Total length of national road network is the
length of the interurban classifi ed network
without the urban and rural network.
Rail lines are the length of railway route
available for train service, irrespective of the
number of parallel tracks.
Road density, ratio to arable land is the total
length of national road network per 1,000
square kilometers of arable land area. / e use
of arable land area in the denominator focuses
on inhabited sectors of total land area by
excluding wilderness areas.
Road density, ratio to total land is the total
length of national road network per 1,000
square kilometers of total land area.
Energy consumption for transportation is the transportation sector's contribution to total
fi nal energy consumption.
Rural access is the percentage of the rural
population who live within 2 kilometers of
an all-season passable road as a share of the
total rural population.
Commercial vehicles are the number of commercial
vehicles, which use at least 24 liters
of diesel fuel per 100 kilometers.
Passenger cars are the number of passenger
vehicles, which use at least 9 liters of gasoline
fuel per 100 kilometers.
Length of national network in good condition
is the length of the national road network,
including the interurban classifi ed network
without the urban and rural network, that is
in good condition, as defi ned by each country's
road agency.
Ratio of paved to total roads is the length of
paved roadsówhich are those surfaced with
crushed stone (macadam) and hydrocarbon
binder or bituminized agents, with concrete,
or with cobblestonesóas a percentage of all
the country's roads.
Average time to ship 20 ft container from port
to fi nal destination is the time in days from
when the ship is available for unloading (be
it moored at the berth or off shore) until the
content of the container is made available to
the fi nal customer at the destination in the
considered economic center, weighted based
on container traffi c for each corridor.
Firms identifying transport as major or very
severe obstacle to business operation and growth
is the percentage of fi rms that responded
"major" or "very severe" obstacle to the following
question: "Please tell us if any of the
following issues are a problem for the operation
and growth of your business. If an issue
(infrastructure, regulation, and permits)
poses a problem, please judge its severity as
an obstacle on a fi ve-point scale that ranges
from 0 = no obstacle to 5 = very severe
obstacle."
Average cost to ship 20 ft container from
port to fi nal destination is the costs of all operations
associated with bringing a container
from onboard a ship to the considered economic
center, weighted based on container
traffi c for each corridor.
Price of diesel fuel and super gasoline is the
price as posted at fi lling stations in a country's
capital city. When several fuel prices for
major cities were available, the unweighted average is used. Since super gasoline (95 octane/
A95/premium) is not available everywhere,
it is sometime replaced by regular gasoline
(92 octane/A92), premium plus gasoline
(98 octane/A98), or an average of the two.
Committed nominal investment in transport
projects with private participation is annual
committed investment in transport (including
roads, airport, seaport, toll road, and railroad)
projects with private investment.
Average annual offi cial development assistance
(ODA) disbursements for transportation
and storage are average annual ODA for transportation
and storage, including bilateral,
multilateral, and other donors.
Existence of road fund includes fi rst generation
(funded primarily by earmarked taxes)
and second generation (funded primarily by
user charges) road funds.
Source: Data on total length of road network
are from the International Road Federation's
World Road Statistics. Data on total length of
national network, length of national network
in good condition, average time and cost to
ship 20 ft container, and existence of a road
fund are from the World Bank's Sub-Saharan
Africa Transport Policy Program (SSATP).
Data on rail lines and ratio of paved to total
roads are from the World Bank's World Development
Indicators database. Data on road
density and rural access to roads are from
the World Bank's SSATP and World Development
Indicators database. Data on energy
consumption for transportation are from the
International Energy Agency. Data on vehicle
fl eet and fuel and gasoline prices are from the
German Society for Technical Cooperation
(GTZ). Data on fi rms identifying transport
as a major or very severe constraint to business
operation and growth are from World
Bank Investment Climate Surveys. Data on
committed nominal investment in transport
projects with private participation are from
the World Bank's Private Participation in
Infrastructure database. Data on ODA disbursements
are from the Organisation for
Economic Co-operation and Development.

Telephone subscribers are subscribers to a
main telephone line service, which connects a
customer's equipment to the public switched telephone network, or to a cellular telephone
service, which uses cellular technology.
Unmet demand is unmet applications for
connection to the public switched telephone
network that have had to be held over owing
to a lack of technical facilities (equipment,
lines, and the like) divided by the number of
main telephone lines in operation.
Households with own telephone is the percentage
of households possessing a telephone.
Delay for fi rm in obtaining a telephone connection
is the average actual delay in days that
fi rms experience when obtaining a telephone
connection, measured from the day the establishment
applied to the day it received the
service or approval.
Duration of telephone outages is the average
duration in hours of instances of telephone
unavailability related to production.
Reported phone faults is the total number
of reported faults for the year divided by
the total number of mainlines in operation
multiplied by 100. / e defi nition of fault can
vary. Some countries include faulty customer
equipment; others distinguish between reported
and actual found faults. / ere is also
sometimes a distinction between residential
and business lines. Another consideration is
the time period: some countries report this
indicator on a monthly basis; in these cases
data are converted to yearly estimates.
Firms identifying telecommunications as major
or very severe obstacle to business operation
and growth is the percentage of fi rms that responded
"major" or "very severe" obstacle to
the following question: "Please tell us if any
of the following issues are a problem for the
operation and growth of your business. If an
issue (infrastructure, regulation, and permits)
poses a problem, please judge its severity as an
obstacle on a fi ve-point scale that ranges from
0 = no obstacle to 5 = very severe obstacle."
Cost of a cellular local call is the cost of a
three-minute cellular local call during off -
peak hours.
Cost of a local phone call is the cost of a threeminute
local call during peak hours. Local call
refers to a call within the same exchange area
using the subscriber's own terminal (that is,
not from a public telephone).
Cost of phone call to the United States is
the cost of a three-minute call to the United
States during peak hours. Committed nominal investment in fi xed-line
and long distance projects with private participation
is annual committed investment in
fi xed-line and long distance projects with private
investment.
Committed nominal investment in mobile
projects with private participation is annual
committed investment in mobile projects
with private investment.
Average annual offi cial development assistance
(ODA) disbursements for communications are average
annual ODA for communications, including
bilateral, multilateral, and other donors.
Source: Data on telephone subscribers, reported
phone faults, and cost of local and cellular
calls are from the International Telecommunications
Union. Data on unmet demand
are from the World Bank's Infrastructure
Vice Presidency. Data on households with
own telephone are from Demographic and
Health Surveys. Data on delays for fi rms in
obtaining a telephone connection, duration
of telephone outages, and fi rms identifying
telecommunications as a major or very severe
obstacle to business operation and growth
are from World Bank Investment Climate Assessments.
Data on cost of a call to the United
States are from the World Bank's Global
Development Finance and World Development
Indicator databases. Data on committed
nominal investment are from the World
Bank's Private Participation in Infrastructure
database. Data on ODA disbursements are
from the Organisation for Economic Co-operation
and Development.

Installed capacity is the sum of conventional
thermal electricity installed capacity; hydroelectricity
installed capacity; nuclear electricity
installed capacity; and geothermal, solar,
wind, wood, and waste electricity installed
capacity.
Electric power consumption is the production
of power plants and combined heat and
power plants, less distribution losses and
own use by heat and power plants.
Energy use per purchasing power parity (PPP)
gross domestic product (GDP) is apparent consumption,
which is equal to indigenous production
plus imports and stock changes minus
exports and fuels supplied to ships and
aircraft engaged in international transport, divided by nominal GDP in PPP U.S. dollars.
Access to electricity is the percentage of the
population living in households with access
to electricity. Solid fuels use is the percentage of the
population using solid fuels as opposed to
modern fuels.

</file>

<file= AmE06_H12>

''§ 948b. Military commissions generally
''(a) PURPOSE. - This chapter establishes procedures governing
the use of military commissions to try alien unlawful enemy combatants
engaged in hostilities against the United States for violations
of the law of war and other offenses triable by military commission.
''(b) AUTHORITY FOR MILITARY COMMISSIONS UNDER THIS
CHAPTER. - The President is authorized to establish military
commissions under this chapter for offenses triable by military
commission as provided in this chapter.
''(c) CONSTRUCTION OF PROVISIONS. - The procedures for military
commissions set forth in this chapter are based upon the
procedures for trial by general courts-martial under chapter 47
of this title (the Uniform Code of Military Justice). Chapter 47
of this title does not, by its terms, apply to trial by military commission
except as specifically provided in this chapter. The judicial
construction and application of that chapter are not binding on
military commissions established under this chapter.
''(d) INAPPLICABILITY OF CERTAIN PROVISIONS. - (1) The following
provisions of this title shall not apply to trial by military
commission under this chapter:
''(A) Section 810 (article 10 of the Uniform Code of Military
Justice), relating to speedy trial, including any rule of courtsmartial
relating to speedy trial.
''(B) Sections 831(a), (b), and (d) (articles 31(a), (b), and
(d) of the Uniform Code of Military Justice), relating to compulsory
self-incrimination.
''(C) Section 832 (article 32 of the Uniform Code of Military
Justice), relating to pretrial investigation.
''(2) Other provisions of chapter 47 of this title shall apply
to trial by military commission under this chapter only to the
extent provided by this chapter.
''(e) TREATMENT OF RULINGS AND PRECEDENTS. - The findings,
holdings, interpretations, and other precedents of military commissions
under this chapter may not be introduced or considered in
any hearing, trial, or other proceeding of a court-martial convened
under chapter 47 of this title. The findings, holdings, interpretations,
and other precedents of military commissions under this
chapter may not form the basis of any holding, decision, or other
determination of a court-martial convened under that chapter.
''(f) STATUS OF COMMISSIONS UNDER COMMON ARTICLE 3. - 
A military commission established under this chapter is a regularly
constituted court, affording all the necessary 'judicial guarantees
which are recognized as indispensable by civilized peoples' for purposes
of common Article 3 of the Geneva Conventions.
''(g) GENEVA CONVENTIONS NOT ESTABLISHING SOURCE OF
RIGHTS. - No alien unlawful enemy combatant subject to trial by
military commission under this chapter may invoke the Geneva
Conventions as a source of rights.
''§ 948c. Persons subject to military commissions
''Any alien unlawful enemy combatant is subject to trial by
military commission under this chapter.

''§ 948d. Jurisdiction of military commissions
''(a) JURISDICTION. - A military commission under this chapter
shall have jurisdiction to try any offense made punishable by this
chapter or the law of war when committed by an alien unlawful
enemy combatant before, on, or after September 11, 2001.
''(b) LAWFUL ENEMY COMBATANTS. - Military commissions under
this chapter shall not have jurisdiction over lawful enemy combatants.
Lawful enemy combatants who violate the law of war are
subject to chapter 47 of this title. Courts-martial established under
that chapter shall have jurisdiction to try a lawful enemy combatant
for any offense made punishable under this chapter.
''(c) DETERMINATION OF UNLAWFUL ENEMY COMBATANT STATUS
DISPOSITIVE. - A finding, whether before, on, or after the date of
the enactment of the Military Commissions Act of 2006, by a
Combatant Status Review Tribunal or another competent tribunal
established under the authority of the President or the Secretary
of Defense that a person is an unlawful enemy combatant is dispositive
for purposes of jurisdiction for trial by military commission
under this chapter.
''(d) PUNISHMENTS. - A military commission under this chapter
may, under such limitations as the Secretary of Defense may prescribe,
adjudge any punishment not forbidden by this chapter,
including the penalty of death when authorized under this chapter
or the law of war.
''§ 948e. Annual report to congressional committees
''(a) ANNUAL REPORT REQUIRED. - Not later than December 31
each year, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committees
on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives
a report on any trials conducted by military commissions under
this chapter during such year.
''(b) FORM. - Each report under this section shall be submitted
in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
''SUBCHAPTER II - COMPOSITION OF MILITARY
COMMISSIONS
''Sec.
''948h. Who may convene military commissions.
''948i. Who may serve on military commissions.
''948j. Military judge of a military commission.
''948k. Detail of trial counsel and defense counsel.
''948l. Detail or employment of reporters and interpreters.
''948m. Number of members; excuse of members; absent and additional members.
''§ 948h. Who may convene military commissions
''Military commissions under this chapter may be convened
by the Secretary of Defense or by any officer or official of the
United States designated by the Secretary for that purpose.
''§ 948i. Who may serve on military commissions
''(a) IN GENERAL. - Any commissioned officer of the armed forces
on active duty is eligible to serve on a military commission under
this chapter.
''(b) DETAIL OF MEMBERS. - When convening a military commission
under this chapter, the convening authority shall detail as
members of the commission such members of the armed forces
eligible under subsection (a), as in the opinion of the convening
S. 3930 - 5
authority, are best qualified for the duty by reason of age, education,
training, experience, length of service, and judicial temperament.
No member of an armed force is eligible to serve as a member
of a military commission when such member is the accuser or
a witness for the prosecution or has acted as an investigator or
counsel in the same case.
''(c) EXCUSE OF MEMBERS. - Before a military commission under
this chapter is assembled for the trial of a case, the convening
authority may excuse a member from participating in the case.
''§ 948j. Military judge of a military commission
''(a) DETAIL OF MILITARY JUDGE. - A military judge shall be
detailed to each military commission under this chapter. The Secretary
of Defense shall prescribe regulations providing for the
manner in which military judges are so detailed to military commissions.
The military judge shall preside over each military commission
to which he has been detailed.
''(b) QUALIFICATIONS. - A military judge shall be a commissioned
officer of the armed forces who is a member of the bar of a Federal
court, or a member of the bar of the highest court of a State,
and who is certified to be qualified for duty under section 826
of this title (article 26 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice)
as a military judge in general courts-martial by the Judge Advocate
General of the armed force of which such military judge is a
member.
''(c) INELIGIBILITY OF CERTAIN INDIVIDUALS. - No person is
eligible to act as military judge in a case of a military commission
under this chapter if he is the accuser or a witness or has acted
as investigator or a counsel in the same case.
''(d) CONSULTATION WITH MEMBERS; INELIGIBILITY TO VOTE. - 
A military judge detailed to a military commission under this
chapter may not consult with the members of the commission
except in the presence of the accused (except as otherwise provided
in section 949d of this title), trial counsel, and defense counsel,
nor may he vote with the members of the commission.
''(e) OTHER DUTIES. - A commissioned officer who is certified
to be qualified for duty as a military judge of a military commission
under this chapter may perform such other duties as are assigned
to him by or with the approval of the Judge Advocate General
of the armed force of which such officer is a member or the designee
of such Judge Advocate General.
''(f) PROHIBITION ON EVALUATION OF FITNESS BY CONVENING
AUTHORITY. - The convening authority of a military commission
under this chapter shall not prepare or review any report concerning
the effectiveness, fitness, or efficiency of a military judge detailed
to the military commission which relates to his performance of
duty as a military judge on the military commission.
''§ 948k. Detail of trial counsel and defense counsel
''(a) DETAIL OF COUNSEL GENERALLY. - (1) Trial counsel and
military defense counsel shall be detailed for each military commission
under this chapter.
''(2) Assistant trial counsel and assistant and associate defense
counsel may be detailed for a military commission under this
chapter.
''(3) Military defense counsel for a military commission under
this chapter shall be detailed as soon as practicable after the
swearing of charges against the accused.
''(4) The Secretary of Defense shall prescribe regulations providing
for the manner in which trial counsel and military defense
counsel are detailed for military commissions under this chapter
and for the persons who are authorized to detail such counsel
for such commissions.
''(b) TRIAL COUNSEL. - Subject to subsection (e), trial counsel
detailed for a military commission under this chapter must be - 
''(1) a judge advocate (as that term is defined in section
801 of this title (article 1 of the Uniform Code of Military
Justice) who - 
''(A) is a graduate of an accredited law school or is
a member of the bar of a Federal court or of the highest
court of a State; and
''(B) is certified as competent to perform duties as
trial counsel before general courts-martial by the Judge
Advocate General of the armed force of which he is a
member; or
''(2) a civilian who - 
''(A) is a member of the bar of a Federal court or
of the highest court of a State; and
''(B) is otherwise qualified to practice before the military
commission pursuant to regulations prescribed by the
Secretary of Defense.
''(c) MILITARY DEFENSE COUNSEL. - Subject to subsection (e),
military defense counsel detailed for a military commission under
this chapter must be a judge advocate (as so defined) who is - 
''(1) a graduate of an accredited law school or is a member
of the bar of a Federal court or of the highest court of a
State; and
''(2) certified as competent to perform duties as defense
counsel before general courts-martial by the Judge Advocate
General of the armed force of which he is a member.
''(d) CHIEF PROSECUTOR; CHIEF DEFENSE COUNSEL. - (1) The
Chief Prosecutor in a military commission under this chapter shall
meet the requirements set forth in subsection (b)(1).
''(2) The Chief Defense Counsel in a military commission under
this chapter shall meet the requirements set forth in subsection
(c)(1).
''(e) INELIGIBILITY OF CERTAIN INDIVIDUALS. - No person who
has acted as an investigator, military judge, or member of a military
commission under this chapter in any case may act later as trial
counsel or military defense counsel in the same case. No person
who has acted for the prosecution before a military commission
under this chapter may act later in the same case for the defense,
nor may any person who has acted for the defense before a military
commission under this chapter act later in the same case for the
prosecution.
''§ 948l. Detail or employment of reporters and interpreters
''(a) COURT REPORTERS. - Under such regulations as the Secretary
of Defense may prescribe, the convening authority of a military
commission under this chapter shall detail to or employ for
the commission qualified court reporters, who shall make a verbatim recording of the proceedings of and testimony taken before the
commission.
''(b) INTERPRETERS. - Under such regulations as the Secretary
of Defense may prescribe, the convening authority of a military
commission under this chapter may detail to or employ for the
military commission interpreters who shall interpret for the
commission and, as necessary, for trial counsel and defense counsel
and for the accused.
''(c) TRANSCRIPT; RECORD. - The transcript of a military commission
under this chapter shall be under the control of the convening
authority of the commission, who shall also be responsible for
preparing the record of the proceedings.
''§ 948m. Number of members; excuse of members; absent
and additional members

</file>

<file= AmE06_H13>

Reports Filed: Reports were filed on Friday, June 23rd, as follows: 
H. Res. 846, requesting the President and directing the Secretary of State to provide to the House of Representatives certain documents in their possession relating to strategies and plans either designed to cause regime change in or for the use of military force against Iran, adversely (H. Rept. 109-526); and 
H. Res. 819, requesting the President and directing the Attorney General to submit to the House of Representatives all documents in the possession of the President and the Attorney General relating to requests made by the National Security Agency and other Federal agencies to telephone service providers requesting access to telephone communications records of persons in the United States and communications originating and terminating within the United States without a warrant (H. Rept. 109-527). 
Reports were filed today as follows: 
H. Res. 845, requesting the President and directing the Secretary of Defense and the Attorney General to transmit to the House of Representatives not later than 14 days after the date of the adoption of this resolution, documents relating to the termination of the Department of Justice's Office of Professional Responsibility's investigation of the involvement of Department of Justice personnel in the creation and administration of the National Security Agency's warrantless surveillance program, including documents relating to the Office of Professional Responsibility's request for and denial of security clearances, adversely (H. Rept. 109-528); 
H. Res. 890, providing for consideration of H.R. 5672, making appropriations for Science, State, Justice, Commerce, and related agencies appropriations act, 2007 (H. Rept. 109-529); 
H. Res. 891, providing for consideration of H.R. 4973, to restore the financial solvency of the national flood insurance program (H. Rept. 109-530); and 
H.R. 4761, to provide for exploration, development, and production activities for mineral resources on the outer Continental Shelf, and for other purposes, with an amendment (H. Rept. 109-531). 
Pages H4553-54

Speaker: Read a letter from the Speaker wherein he appointed Representative Boustany to act as Speaker pro tempore for today. 
Page H4523

Recess: The House recessed at 12:41 p.m. and reconvened at 2 p.m. 
Page H4524

Suspensions: The House agreed to suspend the rules and pass the following measures: 
Correcting the enrollment of the bill H.R. 889: S. Con. Res. 103, to correct the enrollment of the bill H.R. 889--clearing the measure for the President; 
Pages H4525-26

Congratulating the Miami Heat for winning the 2006 NBA Championship: H. Res. 887, to congratulate the Miami Heat for winning the 2006 NBA Championship; and 
Pages H4530-32

Reauthorizing permanently the use of penalty and franked mail in efforts relating to the location and recovery of missing children: H.R. 4416, to reauthorize permanently the use of penalty and franked mail in efforts relating to the location and recovery of missing children. 
Pages H4532-33

Suspensions--Proceedings Postponed: The House completed debate on the following measures under suspension of the rules. Further consideration of the measures is expected to resume tomorrow, Tuesday, June 27th: 
Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation Act of 2006: Conference report on H.R. 889, to authorize appropriations for the Coast Guard for fiscal year 2006, to make technical corrections to various laws administered by the Coast Guard; and 
Pages H4526-28

Veterans' Compensation Cost-of-Living Adjustment Act of 2006: H.R. 4843, amended, to increase, effective as of December 1, 2006, the rates of disability compensation for veterans with service-connected disabilities and the rates of dependency and indemnity compensation for survivors of certain service-connected disabled veterans. 
Pages H4528-30

Recess: The House recessed at 2:35 p.m. and reconvened at 6:34 p.m. 
Page H4530

Journal: Later, the House agreed to the Speaker's approval of the Journal. 
Pages H4524, H4530

Presidential Message: Read a message from the President consistent with the Trade Act of 2002 whereby he notifies the Congress of his intention to D702enter into a Free Trade Agreement with Oman--referred to the Committee on Ways and Means and ordered printed (H. Doc. 109-118). 
Page H4533

Senate Message: Message received from the Senate by the Clerk and subsequently presented to the House today appears on page H4540. 
Senate Referral: S. 2370 was held at the desk. 
Amendments: Amendments ordered printed pursuant to the rule appear on pages H4555-57. 
Quorum Calls--Votes: There were no yea-and-nay votes, and there were no recorded votes. There were no quorum calls. 
Adjournment: The House met at 12:30 p.m. and adjourned at 10:02 p.m. 
[Page: D702]  GPO's PDF
Committee Meetings

FLOOD INSURANCE REFORM AND MODERNIZATION ACT OF 2006 

Committee on Rules: Granted, by voice vote, a structured rule providing 1 hour of general debate on H.R. 4973, Floor Insurance Reform and Modernization Act of 2006, equally divided and controlled by the chairman and ranking minority member of the Committee on Financial Services. The rule waives all points of order against consideration of the bill. The rule makes in order only those amendments printed in the Rules Committee report accompanying the resolution. The rules provides that the amendments printed in the report may be offered only in the order printed in the report, may be offered only by a Member designated in the report, shall be considered as read, shall be debatable for the time specified in the report equally divided and controlled by the proponent and an opponent, shall not be subject to amendment, and shall not be subject to a demand for a division of the question in the House or in the Committee of the Whole. The rule waives all points of order against amendments printed in the report. Finally, the rule provides one motion to recommit with or without instructions. Testimony was heard from Representatives Baker, Pearce, Burton of Indiana, Rohrabacher, Wasserman Schultz, Pomeroy, and Matsui. 
SCIENCE, THE DEPARTMENTS OF STATE, JUSTICE, AND COMMERCE, AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS FOR FISCAL YEAR 2006 

Committee on Rules: Granted, by voice vote, an open rule providing 1 hour of general debate on H.R. 5672, making appropriations for Science, the Departments of State, Justice, and Commerce, and related agencies for fiscal year ending September 30, 2007, and for other purposes, equally divided and controlled by the chairman and ranking minority member of the Committee on Appropriations. The rule waives all points of order against consideration of the bill. Under the rules of the House the bill shall be read for amendment by paragraph. The rule waives points of order against provisions in the bill for failure to comply with clause 2 of rule XXI (prohibiting unauthorized appropriations or legislative provisions in an appropriations bill), except as specified in the resolution. The rule authorizes the Chair to accord priority in recognition to members who have pre-printed their amendments in the Congressional Record . The rule provides one motion to recommit with or without instructions. The rule provides that it shall be in order, any rule of the House to the contrary notwithstanding, to consider concurrent resolutions providing for adjournment of the House and Senate during the month of July. Finally, the rule provides that H. Res. 878 is laid on the table. Testimony was heard from Representatives Wolf, Obey, Hoyer, George Miller of California, McDermott, Woolsey, and Corrine Brown of Florida. 
COMMITTEE MEETINGS FOR TUESDAY,

JUNE 27, 2006

(Committee meetings are open unless otherwise indicated)

Senate

Committee on Appropriations: Subcommittee on Labor, Health and Human Services, Education, and Related Agencies, to hold hearings to examine the potential impact of S. 2754, to derive human pluripotent stem cell lines using techniques that do not knowingly harm embryos (referred to the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions), 9 a.m., SD-192. 
Subcommittee on Interior and Related Agencies, business meeting to mark up H.R. 5386, making appropriations for the Department of the Interior, environment, and related agencies for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2007, 9:45 a.m., SD-124. 
Subcommittee on Energy and Water, business meeting to mark up H.R. 5427, making appropriations for energy and water development for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2007, 2:30 p.m., SD-138. 
Subcommittee on Homeland Security, business meeting to mark up H.R. 5441, making appropriations for the Department of Homeland Security for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2007, 2:30 p.m., S-128, Capitol. 
Committee on Armed Services: to receive a closed briefing on recent North Korean ballistic missile developments, 10:30 a.m., SR-222. 
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs: Subcommittee on Housing and Transportation, to hold an oversight hearing to examine the current state of progress and future outlook relating to SAFETEA-LU implementation, 2:30 p.m., SD-538. 
[Page: D703]  GPO's PDF
Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation: business meeting to resume markup of H.R. 5252, to promote the deployment of broadband networks and services, 10 a.m., SH-216. 
Committee on Energy and Natural Resources: to hold hearings to examine implementation of the Energy Policy Act provisions on enhancing oil and gas production on Federal lands in the Rocky Mountain Region, 10 a.m., SD-366. 
Committee on Finance: to hold hearings to examine the nomination of Henry M. Paulson, Jr., of New York, to be Secretary of the Treasury, 10 a.m., SD-215. 
Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs: Subcommittee on Oversight of Government Management, the Federal Workforce, and the District of Columbia, to hold an oversight hearing to examine the Office of Personnel Management, focusing on whether the Office of Personnel Management is positioned to be the Federal government's leader in personnel policy today and in the future, 10 a.m., SD-342. 
Committee on the Judiciary: to hold hearings to examine the use of presidential signing statements, which are issued when a president signs new laws, 10 a.m., SD-226. 
Select Committee on Intelligence: to receive a closed briefing regarding intelligence matters, 2:30 p.m., SH-219. 
Special Committee on Aging: to hold hearings to examine if medical tourism can reduce health care costs relating to the globalization of health care, 10 a.m., SD-215. 
House

Committee on Appropriations, Subcommittee on Military Quality of Life, and Veterans' Affairs, and Related Agencies, hearing on Veterans Affairs Data Security, 9:30 a.m., H-140 Capitol. 
Committee on Armed Services, hearing on Army and Marine Corps reset strategies for ground equipment and rotorcraft, 2 p.m., 2118 Rayburn. 
Committee on Energy and Commerce, Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations, hearing entitled ``Making the Internet Safe for Kids: The Role of ISPs and Social Networking Sites,'' 10 a.m., 2123 Rayburn. 
Subcommittee on Telecommunications and the Internet, hearing entitled ``The Audio and Video Flags: Can Content Protection and Technological Innovation Coexist?'' 2 p.m., 2322 Rayburn. 
Committee on Government Reform, Subcommittee on Criminal Justice, Drug Policy, and Human Resources, hearing entitled ``Clinical Lab Quality: Oversight Weaknesses Undermine Federal Standards,'' 2 p.m., 2247 Rayburn. 
Subcommittee on Federalism and the Census, hearing entitled ``Moving the CDBG Program Forward: A Look at the Administration's Reform Proposal. Where Do We Go From Here?'' 10 a.m., 2154 Rayburn. 
Subcommittee on National Security, Emerging Threats, and International Relations, hearing entitled ``Sexual Assault and Violence Against Women in the Military and at the Academies,'' 2 p.m., 2154 Rayburn. 
Committee on International Relations, to mark up the following bills: H.R. 4974, To authorize the President to waive the application of certain requirements under the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 with respect to India; and H.R. 4014, Millennium Challenge Reauthorization Act of 2005, 10 a.m., 2172 Rayburn. 
Subcommittee on Africa, Global Human Rights and International Operations, hearing and briefing on Making Safe Blood Available in Africa, 2 p.m., 2172 Rayburn. 
Committee on Resources, Subcommittee on Water and Power and the Subcommittee on Forests and Forest Health, joint oversight hearing on Meeting Electricity Demand in the West through Responsible Development of Energy Rights-of-Way on Federal lands, 10 a.m., 1324 Longworth. 
Committee on Science, to mark up H.R. 5656, Energy Research, Development, Demonstration, and Commercial Application Act of 2006, 10 a.m., 2318 Rayburn. 
Committee on Small Business, Subcommittee on Regulatory Reform and Oversight, hearing entitled ``S Corporations--Their History and Challenges,'' 10 a.m., 2360 Rayburn. 
Subcommittee on Workforce, Empowerment, and Government Programs, hearing entitled ``Immigrant Employment Verification and Small Business,'' 2:30 p.m., 2360 Rayburn. 
Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, Subcommittee on Highways, Transit and Pipelines, hearing Celebrating 59 Years: The Eisenhower Interstate Highway System, 2 p.m., 2167 Rayburn.

</file>

<file= AmE06_H14>

Issues and Rationale 
The ancient scourge of tuberculosis remains a public health threat, with almost 9 million new cases each year. TB is a disease of poverty that disproportionately affects poor countries and marginalized populations. The internationally recommended DOTS strategy for managing TB cases has been accepted nearly worldwide, and its use has increased considerably in the last five years. Yet, only 53 percent of estimated TB cases are detected and benefit from this therapeutic intervention. 
The DOTS strategy is the best proven line of defense against tuberculosis. However, it relies on a 100-year-old diagnostic technology, a drug regimen whose newest addition came 40 years ago, and labor-intensive case management of the six- to eight-month treatment. The only vaccine available for TB, BCG, was introduced in 1921 and offers protection against severe forms of disease in children under age 5 but offers minimal protection to adults. 
For decades, TB was a neglected disease that saw little investment in research for new tools. The TB community has forged ahead with these antiquated tools and has succeeded in slowing the epidemic in most regions of the world by successfully treating 82 percent of the patients managed under DOTS. Yet almost half of TB cases remain undetected, largely due to barriers to access to appropriate diagnosis and care. Fortunately, increasing attention to TB is stimulating research to address these constraints.
In Africa high rates of HIV have ignited a resurgence of TB with some countries experiencing increases in TB incidence of up to 300 percent during the last decade. In many settings up to 50 percent of TB patients are estimated to be HIV-positive, and TB is the primary single infectious cause of death among those living with HIV/AIDS. HIV is making it more difficult to diagnose the disease as current diagnostic technologies are not highly sensitive in HIV-infected individuals. The complexities of treating TB and HIV/AIDS simultaneously are not yet resolved. Preventing the emergence of TB in those infected with HIV/AIDS is possible through chemoprophylaxis, but the evidence base is insufficient to guide practice.
Another powerful threat to the control of TB is the emergence of multidrug-resistant TB (MDR-TB). A recently completed survey of 74 countries and geographical regions found MDR-TB in an average of 1.7 percent of TB cases. Eleven countries/settings reported rates higher than 10 percent. Cases of MDR-TB must be treated with second-line drugs that can cost 10 to100 times more than first-line drugs. Death rates for MDRTB are high and as experienced in New York City in the early 1990s, outbreaks of MDR-TB can wreak havoc on TB control efforts. 
Even with promising new drugs on the horizon, the protection of the limited number of second-line drugs is an urgent priority. The emergence of drug resistance is associated with poorly performing routine TB control services. Inappropriate use of second-line drugs to treat resistant disease could result in untreatable strains of TB. Research is still needed to improve the detection of drug resistance in resource/infrastructure-poor settings, and to manage drug-resistant TB in HIV-infected patients who are simultaneously receiving ART. Further additional efforts are needed to develop new, safer, and more effective drugs against MDR-TB and ensure that they reach the market.
The global TB community recently developed a consensus "Global Plan to Stop TB 2006-2015," which aims to halve TB prevalence and mortality by 2015 from the 1990 baseline. The achievement of this plan will result in the treatment of 50 million TB patients, and 14 million lives will be saved. The plan emphasizes the need for new drugs, new diagnostics, a new vaccine, and other innovations to improve program performance and patient access to DOTS. The critical role of research in meeting these aims is evident. 
US AID's Role in TB Research
The "Global Plan to Stop TB 2006-1015" and the new Stop TB Strategy proposed by WHO mainstream innovations in service delivery such as DOTS-Plus for drug-resistant disease, algorithmic approaches to screening for TB, public-private partnerships for implementing TB control, coordinated management of TB-HIV, and revised treatment regimens that only five years ago were topics of research. USAID was a key donor for the research behind many of these advances. 
USAID brings its field presence to bear on the TB research agenda, both informing the research community about the field-based needs and priorities, enabling field-based trials of new technologies, and moving the results of research into policy and practice in the field. USAID's significant comparative advantage is in its ability to contribute to research where it has direct implications for country-level TB programs, i.e. clinical trials at Stage IIb and beyond, field demonstrations of new technologies and implementation approaches, and operations research to improve program performance.
USAID collaborates with other U.S. Government partners to ensure seamless and non-duplicative support to the continuum of research, drawing on the comparative advantages of each agency (figure 2). USAID participates in several cross-agency partnerships to nurture this collaboration, including the TB International Workgroup, hosted by NIH; the Federal TB Task Force, coordinated by CDC; and the TB-HIV Working Group, convened by the Office of the U.S. Global AIDS Coordinator. Once promising developments are ready to be tested in the field and moved into policy, USAID has a clear role to fund and coordinate their introduction. 
Strategy 
USAID's strategy is to invest in research that will improve the performance and public health impact of country-level TB programs while mitigating the risks of drug resistance by: (1) reducing diagnostic delay, (2) reducing the duration and improving the efficacy of treatment, (3) preventing disease, and (4) increasing access to DOTS. 
USAID will invest in new tools and approaches that are less labor intensive, more cost-effective, and can be delivered close to patients to minimize the health workforce burden and improve patient access, thereby improving case detection and treatment success rates. USAID will prioritize research that has the potential to change policy and practice in developing countries within three to five years. 
These strategic investments mean that USAID will not invest in several other possible lines of research. For example, USAID will not support research related to TB in animals nor will it engage in research for which the resulting technologies or approaches would not be cost-effective or feasible for use in developing countries. USAID will not invest in basic science or Phase I or II clinical trials, as this work can be better supported through NIH. USAID will not invest in research related to pediatric TB, with the exception of research to better cotreat TB and HIV in children, as there is less of a public health burden resulting from pediatric cases.
During the first year of the implementation of this strategic plan, USAID will support research to optimize the effectiveness of existing technologies while continuing its support for late-stage clinical trials of new drugs and diagnostics. It will also ramp up efforts to prepare the field for the introduction of new technologies and to address barriers to access to services. By 2009, USAID will be responding to a robust pipeline of potential new diagnostics and drugs by supporting field trials and test ing novel approaches to deliver these new tools at the country level. USAID will leverage country-level resources, such as those from the Global Fund, to support mainstreaming of new technologies into standard practice and to guide investments in infrastructure and human resources for future adoption of technologies and approaches. It is anticipated that by 2011, a new vaccine that will prevent disease among adolescents and adults may be ready for demonstration trials in the field, warranting targeted support from USAID. Meanwhile, USAID will continue to move successes from research into practice and policy.
Reproductive Health and Family Planning
Contraceptive Research and Development Program 
Issues and Rationale
The range and availability of contraceptive methods around the world has expanded significantly in the past 40 years due to the work of USAID. Nevertheless, there is still an urgent need to further expand the range of methods and ensure access to women and men who wish to use contraception. Nearly 123 million women in less developed regions have an unmet need for family planning, and the demand for expanded access to safe, effective, acceptable, and affordable contraceptives will continue to grow as millions more young women and men reach reproductive age. Two consequences of the unmet need for contraception and unintended pregnancy are abortion and maternal death  -  19 million unsafe abortions occur each year in less developed countries, contributing to approximately 15 percent of maternal mortality (or 68,000 deaths),1 while an estimated 20 to 35 percent of all maternal deaths could be prevented through the use of contraception.2 Family planning reduces unintended pregnancy and consequently reduces abortion, improves birth spacing, and enables couples to achieve their desired family size. Thus, a wide range of contraceptive choices ultimately promotes maternal health and child survival. 
In addition to the unmet need for contraceptives, nearly every developing country needs substantial improvements in coverage and quality of family planning services and effective ways to reach out to youth, men, and the hard-to-reach rural poor. Access to services that can provide a minimal range of contraceptive options, for example, is not available in 75 percent of sub-Saharan African countries. 
US AID's role
USAID plays a crucial role in bringing new contraceptive products to market, especially for public sector use in developing countries. Over the past 15 years, support for USAID's contraceptive research program has been relatively steady, although declines have been seen during the past two years. The program enables USAID to support research to develop improved and new methods, gain better understanding of current methods, and increase the overall use of family planning. Figure 3 on the Standard Days Method illustrates this work. USAID is the only major donor agency, bilateral or multilateral, actively contributing to the field of contraceptive research and development; other donors look to USAID for leadership in this field. With few exceptions, private sector drug companies are not prepared to pursue contraceptive development, particularly of methods appropriate for use in low-resource settings, due to issues of product liability and limited profit potential. 
USAID coordinates its contraceptive research program with other federal agencies, intergovernmental agencies and multilateral donors, private foundations, NGOs, and pharmaceutical companies. The high level of coordination has eliminated unnecessary duplication of effort and has facilitated cost-sharing with other donors. USAID's leadership has helped to focus the international agenda on maximizing the use of effective and affordable technologies and approaches.
Strategy for Research and Development of Contraceptive Technologies
The objective of USAID's contraceptive research program is to improve and expand family planning use through provision of new and improved contraceptive methods, including methods that also reduce the transmission of HIV and other STIs. Activities in support of this objective include: 
•Development and implementation of preclinical, clinical, and acceptability studies on a wide range of methods with a focus on new and improved barrier methods for both contraception and STI prevention 
•Epidemiological studies to assess the effectiveness, safety, and long-term risks and benefits of current and new contraceptive methods 

The contraceptive research and development program is integrated within USAID's comprehensive family planning program and is thus driven by the need for culturally acceptable, easy-to-use, and affordable methods for family planning providers and their clients. This integration is the key to USAID's success as the primary donor agency concerned with developing and evaluating methods appropriate for use in developing-country settings.
Ongoing and Planned Activities to Advance Product Research and Introduction
Over the next five years, USAID's contraceptive research strategy will focus primarily on the development of several new hormonal and barrier methods and on improvements to existing methods. The portfolio includes support for the development of new spermicidal microbicides that prevent both pregnancy and HIV transmission. Six products are slated to enter Phase II/III effectiveness trials for contraception, and three will also begin testing for STI prevention. USAID and its partners will seek FDA approval for new methods, identify private sector and new manufacturing partners, and introduce new methods into existing USAID family planning programs.

</file>

<file= AmE06_H15>

One of DOE's primary objectives is to provide a safe and
healthy workplace for all employees and contractors.
To meet this objective, DOE's Office of Health, Safety
and Security establishes comprehensive and integrated
programs for the protection of workers from hazards in
the workplace, including ionizing radiation. The basic
DOE standards are radiation dose limits, which establish
maximum permissible doses to workers and members
of the public. In addition to the requirement that
radiation doses not exceed the limits, contractors and
subcontractors are required to maintain exposures as low
as reasonably achievable (ALARA).
This section discusses the radiation protection standards
and requirements in effect for 2006. For more information
on past requirements, visit DOE's Web site for DOE
Directives, Regulations, and Standards at
http://www.hss.energy.gov.

2.1 Radiation Protection
Requirements
Current DOE radiation protection standards are
based on federal guidance for protection against
occupational radiation exposure promulgated
by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
(EPA) in 1987.[1] This guidance, initially
implemented by DOE in 1989, is based on the
1977 recommendations of the International
Commission on Radiological Protection
(ICRP)[2] and the 1987 recommendations of
the National Council on Radiation Protection
and Measurements (NCRP).[3] This guidance
recommends that internal organ dose be added
to the external whole-body dose to determine
the total effective dose equivalent (TEDE). Prior
to this, the whole-body dose and internal organ
dose were each limited separately.
In summary, the current laws and requirements
for occupational radiation protection pertaining
to the information collected and presented in
this report are shown in Exhibit 2-1.

2.2 Radiation Dose Limits
Radiation dose limits are codified in 10 CFR 835.202, 206,
207, and 208 [4] and are summarized in Exhibit 2-2.
Under 10 CFR 835.204, planned special exposures (PSEs)
may be authorized under certain conditions, allowing
an individual to receive exposures in excess of the dose
limits shown in Exhibit 2-2. With the appropriate prior
authorization, the annual dose limit for an individual
may be increased by an additional 5 rem (50 mSv) TEDE
above the routine dose limit, as long as the individual
does not exceed a cumulative lifetime TEDE of 25 rem
(250 mSv) from other PSEs and doses above the limits.
PSE doses are required to be recorded separately and are
only intended to be used in exceptional situations where
dose reduction alternatives are unavailable or impractical.
No PSEs have occurred since the requirement became
effective.

2.3 Reporting Requirements
On August 19, 2003, DOE approved and issued the
revised DOE Order 231.1A. [5] The DOE Manual 231.1-1A,
[6] which details the format and content of reporting
radiation exposure records to DOE, was approved on
March 19, 2004. The revisions affected the content and
reporting of radiation exposure records, beginning with
the 2005 monitoring year. This report is the second
report in the series to include data from the new DOE
Manual 231.1-1A. However, it should be noted that several
DOE sites are not required to report under the revised
requirements since they are exempted due to imminent
closure or an undue impact on the dosimetry program
at sites with relatively small numbers of monitored
individuals. Ninety-two out of the 95 organizations
reported under the revised Manual 231.1-1A, while
the remaining three organizations reported under the
previous DOE Manual 231.1-1. These three organizations
accounted for only 0.3% of the total monitored
individuals.

3.1 Analysis of the Data
Several indicators were identified from the data submitted
to the central data repository that can be used to evaluate
the occupational radiation exposures received at DOE
facilities. In addition, the key indicators are analyzed to
identify and correlate parameters having an impact on
radiation dose at DOE.
Key indicators for the analysis of aggregate data are
number of records for monitored individuals and
individuals with measurable dose, collective dose, average
measurable dose, and dose distribution. Analysis of
individual dose data includes an examination of doses
exceeding DOE regulatory limits and doses exceeding
the 2 rem (20 mSv) DOE administrative control level
(ACL). Additional information is provided in this report
concerning activities at sites contributing to the majority
of the collective dose.

3.2 Analysis of Aggregate Data
3.2.1 Number of Records for Monitored Individuals
The number of records for monitored individuals
represents the size of the DOE worker population
provided with radiation dose monitoring. The number
represents the sum of all records for monitored
individuals, including all DOE employees, contractors,
and subcontractors, as well as members of the public.
The number of monitored individuals is determined
from the number of monitoring records submitted by
each site. Because individuals may have more than one
monitoring record, they may be counted more than once.
Although an individual may be counted more than once,
the overall effect on the numbers and analysis is minimal.
The number of records for monitored individuals is an
indication of the size of a dosimetry program, but it is
not necessarily an indicator of the size of the exposed
workforce. This is because of the conservative practice
at some DOE facilities of providing radiation dose
monitoring to individuals for reasons other than the
potential for exposure to radiation and/or radioactive
materials exceeding the monitoring thresholds. Many
individuals are monitored for reasons such as security,
administrative convenience, and legal liability. Some sites
offer monitoring for any individual who requests
monitoring, independent of the potential for
exposure. For this reason, the number of records
for workers who receive a measurable dose best
represents the exposed workforce.
3.2.2 Number of Records for Individuals
with Measurable Dose
DOE uses the number of individuals receiving
measurable dose to represent the exposed
workforce size. The number of individuals with
measurable dose includes any individuals with
reported TEDE greater than zero.
Exhibits 3-1a and 3-1b show the number of
DOE and contractor workers, the total number
of workers monitored for radiation dose, the
number of individuals with measurable dose, and
the relative percentages for the past five years.

For 2006, 74% of the DOE workforce was monitored
for radiation exposure. Fourteen percent of
monitored individuals received a measurable
dose, and 86% of the monitored individuals did
not receive any measurable radiation dose. Over
the past five years, the percentage of individuals
monitored for radiation exposure has remained
within 2% of the five-year average; the percentage
of monitored individuals receiving any measurable
radiation dose each year was within 2% of the fiveyear
average.
Twenty-six of the 34 reporting sites experienced
decreases in the number of workers with
measurable dose from 2005 to 2006. The largest
decrease in total number of workers with
measurable dose occurred at Rocky Flats, which
ceased operations in 2005 and therefore had no
workers with measurable dose in 2006. The largest
increase in the number of workers receiving
measurable dose occurred at Fermilab, where a
number of repairs and improvements were made
during an extended shutdown period. A discussion
of activities at the highest-dose facilities is included
in Section 3.4.3.
3.2.3 Collective Dose
The collective dose is the sum of the dose received
by all individuals with measurable dose and is
measured in units of person-rem (person-Sv).
The collective dose is an indicator of the overall radiation exposure at DOE facilities and includes the dose
to all DOE employees, contractors, and subcontractors, as
well as members of the public. DOE monitors the collective
dose as one measure of the overall performance of radiation
protection programs to keep individual exposures and
collective exposures ALARA.
As shown in Exhibit 3-2, the collective TEDE decreased at DOE
by 18% from 989 person-rem (9.89 person-Sv) in 2005 to 813
person-rem (8.13 person-Sv) in 2006. Only 26% of the DOE
sites (9 out of 34 sites) reported increases in the collective
TEDE from the 2005 values. Four out of five of the sites that
contributed to the majority of the DOE collective TEDE in
2006 reported decreases in the collective TEDE. The sites are
(in descending order of collective dose for 2006) Los Alamos,
Idaho, Hanford, Savannah River, and Oak Ridge.
These highest-dose sites attributed decreases in the collective
dose to the following:
u Deactivation of facilities and a removal of radioactive
and ALARA controls to reduce direct handling of
transuranic drums at the Savannah River Site
u A reduction in the amount of work performed
associated with the Tennessee Valley Authority offspecification
fuel repackaging and other special
projects at the Oak Ridge Y-12 National Security
Complex (Y-12 NSC).
u A decrease in the isotope production work that took
place at the Oak Ridge National Laboratory during
2006 due to an outage at the High Flux Isotope Reactor
(HFIR) for the installation of the Cold Neutron Source
u A 41% reduction in the collective dose at the
Advanced Mixed Waste Treatment Project
(AMWTP) as a result of ALARA initiatives at Idaho
It is important to note that the collective TEDE includes
the components of external dose and internal dose.
Exhibit 3-2 shows the types of radiation and their
contribution to the collective TEDE. Internal dose, photon,
and neutron components are shown.
It should be noted that the internal dose shown in
Exhibit 3-2 for 2002 through 2006 is based on the 50-
year CEDE methodology. The internal dose component
decreased by 26% from 63 person-rem (630 person-mSv)
in 2005 to 47 person-rem (470 person-mSv) in 2006. The
collective internal dose can vary from year to year due
to the relatively small number of intakes of radioactive
material and the fact that the intakes often involve
long-lived radionuclides, such as plutonium, which can
result in relatively large committed doses. Due to the
infrequent nature of these intakes, care should be taken
when attempting to identify trends from the internal dose
records.
The external deep dose (comprised of photon, energetic
beta, and neutron dose) is shown in Exhibit 3-2 in order
to see the contribution of external dose to the collective
TEDE. The collective photon dose decreased by 17% from
772 person-rem (7.72 person-Sv) in 2005 to 642 personrem
(6.42 person-Sv) in 2006.
The neutron component of the TEDE decreased by 20%
from 154 person-rem (1.54 person-Sv) in 2005 to 123
person-rem (1.23 person-Sv) in 2006. This is due primarily
to decreases in the neutron dose at the Savannah River
Site (SRS) and Hanford. Hanford and SRS process
plutonium, which can result in a neutron dose from the
alpha/neutron reaction and from spontaneous fission
of the plutonium. The neutron dose at the Hanford site
decreased 46%. The majority of the site's neutron dose
is from work activities at the Plutonium Finishing Plant
(PFP). Overall dose at the PFP decreased as a result of
the slowdown of decontamination and decommissioning
of PFP facilities as priorities were shifted to the K Basins
Closure Project.
3.2.4 Average Measurable Dose
The average measurable dose to DOE workers presented
in this report for TEDE and CEDE is determined by
dividing the collective dose for each dose type by the
number of individuals with measurable dose for each
dose type. This is one of the key indicators of the overall
level of radiation dose received by DOE workers.
The average measurable TEDE is shown in Exhibit 3-3.
The average measurable TEDE increased by 3% from
0.061 rem (0.61 mSv) in 2005 to 0.063 rem (0.63 mSv) in
2006. While the collective dose and average measurable
dose serve as measures of the magnitude of the dose
accrued by DOE workers, they do not indicate the
distribution of doses among the worker population.
3.2.5 Dose Distribution
Exposure data are commonly analyzed in terms of
dose intervals to depict the dose distribution among
the worker population. Exhibit 3-4 shows the number
of individuals in each of 18 different dose ranges. The
number of individuals receiving doses above 0.1 rem
(1 mSv) is included to show the number of individuals
with doses above the monitoring threshold specified in
10 CFR 835.402(a) and (c). [4]
Exhibit 3-4 shows a reduction in the number of individuals
in all dose ranges except for the 1 - 2 rem (10 - 20 mSv)
range. Ninety-five percent of the individuals with
measurable dose had doses less than 0.25 rem (2.5 mSv).

</file>

<file= AmE06_H16>

Cite as: 549 U. S. ____ (2007) 
Statement of STEVENS and KENNEDY, JJ. 
 
SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES 
LAKHDAR BOUMEDIENE ET AL. 06 - 1195 v. 
GEORGE W. BUSH, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, ET AL. 
KHALED A. F. AL ODAH, NEXT FRIEND OF FAWZI KHALID ABDULLAH FAHAD AL ODAH, ET AL. 
06 - 1196 v. UNITED STATES ET AL. 
ON PETITIONS FOR WRITS OF CERTIORARI TO THE UNITEDSTATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE DISTRICT OFCOLUMBIA CIRCUIT
Nos. 06 - 1195 and 06 - 1196. Decided April 2, 2007 
The petitions for writs of certiorari are denied. 
Statement of JUSTICE STEVENS and JUSTICE KENNEDY respecting the denial of certiorari. 
Despite the obvious importance of the issues raised in these cases, we are persuaded that traditional rules governing our decision of constitutional questions, see Ash-wander v. TVA, 297 U. S. 288, 341 (1936) (Brandeis, J., concurring), and our practice of requiring the exhaustion of available remedies as a precondition to accepting jurisdiction over applications for the writ of habeas corpus, cf. Ex parte Hawk, 321 U. S. 114 (1944) (per curiam), make it appropriate to deny these petitions at this time. However, "[t]his Court has frequently recognized that the policyunderlying the exhaustion-of-remedies doctrine does not require the exhaustion of inadequate remedies." Marino 
v. Ragen, 332 U. S. 561, 570, n. 12 (1947) (Rutledge, J., concurring). If petitioners later seek to establish that the Government has unreasonably delayed proceedings under the Detainee Treatment Act of 2005, Tit. X, 119 Stat. 2739, or some other and ongoing injury, alternative means exist for us to consider our jurisdiction over the allegations made by petitioners before the Court of Appeals. See 28 
U. S. C. §§1651(a), 2241. Were the Government to take additional steps to prejudice the position of petitioners inseeking review in this Court, "courts of competent jurisdiction," including this Court, "should act promptly to ensurethat the office and purposes of the writ of habeas corpus are not compromised." Padilla v. Hanft, 547 U. S. 1062, 1064 (2006) (KENNEDY, J., concurring in denial of certiorari). And as always, denial of certiorari does not constitute an expression of any opinion on the merits. See Rasul 
v. Bush, 542 U. S. 466, 480 - 481 (2004) (majority opinion of STEVENS, J.); id., at 487 (KENNEDY, J., concurring in judgment).

1 Cite as: 549 U. S. ____ (2007) BREYER, J., dissenting 
 
SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES 
LAKHDAR BOUMEDIENE ET AL. 06 - 1195 v. GEORGE W. BUSH, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, ET AL. 
KHALED A. F. AL ODAH, NEXT FRIEND OF FAWZI KHALID ABDULLAH FAHAD AL ODAH, ET AL. 
06 - 1196 v. UNITED STATES ET AL. 
ON PETITIONS FOR WRITS OF CERTIORARI TO THE UNITEDSTATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE DISTRICT OFCOLUMBIA CIRCUIT
Nos. 06 - 1195 and 06 - 1196. Decided April 2, 2007 
JUSTICE BREYER, with whom JUSTICE SOUTER joins, andwith whom JUSTICE GINSBURG joins as to Part I, dissenting from the denial of certiorari. 
I would grant the petitions for certiorari and expedite argument in these cases.
 JUSTICE BREYER, with whom JUSTICE SOUTER joins, andwith whom JUSTICE GINSBURG joins as to Part I, dissenting from the denial of certiorari. 
I would grant the petitions for certiorari and expedite argument in these cases. 
I Petitioners, foreign citizens imprisoned at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, raise an important question: whether theMilitary Commissions Act of 2006, Pub. L. 109 - 366, 120Stat. 2600, deprives courts of jurisdiction to consider their habeas claims, and, if so, whether that deprivation isconstitutional. I believe these questions deserve this Court's immediate attention. First, the "province" of the Great Writ, "shaped to guarantee the most fundamental of all rights, is to provide an effective and speedy instrument by which judicial inquirymay be had into the legality of the detention of a person." Carafas v. LaVallee, 391 U. S. 234, 238 (1968) (emphasis added and footnote omitted). Yet, petitioners have beenheld for more than five years. They have not obtained judicial review of their habeas claims. If petitioners areright about the law, immediate review may avoid an additional year or more of imprisonment. If they are wrong,our review is nevertheless appropriate to help establishthe boundaries of the constitutional provision for the writof habeas corpus. Cf. Carafas, supra. Finally, whetherpetitioners are right or wrong, our prompt review willdiminish the legal "uncertainty" that now "surrounds" theapplication to Guantanamo detainees of this "fundamentalconstitutional principle." Brief for Senator Arlen Specter as Amicus Curiae 19; see generally ibid. (favoring expedited consideration of these cases). Doing so will bring increased clarity that in turn will speed review in other cases. 
Second, petitioners plausibly argue that the lower court's reasoning is contrary to this Court's precedent.This Court previously held that federal jurisdiction lay toconsider petitioners' habeas claims. Rasul v. Bush, 542 
U. S. 466, 485 (2004) (providing several of these petitioners with the right to habeas review under law as it thenstood). Our analysis proceeded under the then-operativestatute, but petitioners urge that our reasoning applies to the scope of the constitutional habeas right as well. Inholding that the writ extended to the petitioners in Rasul, we said that Guantanamo was under the complete controland jurisdiction of the United States. Id., at 480 - 481; id., at 487 (KENNEDY, J., concurring in judgment) ("Guantanamo Bay is in every practical respect a United Statesterritory"). We then observed that the writ at common law would have extended to petitioners: 
"Application of the habeas statute to persons detained at the base is consistent with the historical reach of the writ of habeas corpus. At common law, courts ex aliensdetained within sovereign territory of the realm, as well as the claims of persons detained in the so-called exempt jurisdictions, where ordinary writs did not run, and all other dominions under the sovereign's control . . . . [E]ven if a territory was no part of the realm, there was no doubt as to the court's power toissue writs of habeas corpus if the territory was under the subjection of the Crown." Id., at 481 - 482 (internalquotation marks and footnotes omitted). 
Our reasoning may be applicable here. The lower court's holding, petitioners urge, disregards these statements andreasoning.
Further, petitioners in Boumediene are natives of Algeria, and citizens of Bosnia, seized in Bosnia. Pet. for Cert. in No. 06 - 1195, p. 4. Other detainees, including several petitioners in Al Odah, also are citizens of friendly nations, including Australia, Canada, Kuwait, Turkey, and the United Kingdom; and many were seized outside of any theater of hostility, in places like Pakistan, Thailand, and Zambia. Pet. for Cert. in No. 06 - 1196, pp. 2 - 3, and n. 2;476 F. 3d 981, 1007 (CADC 2007) (Rogers, J., dissenting). It is possible that these circumstances will make a difference in respect to our resolution of the constitutional questions presented. Cf. Hamdi v. Rumsfeld, 542 U. S. 507, 509, 514, 521 (2004) (plurality opinion of O'Connor,J., joined by Rehnquist, C. J., and KENNEDY and BREYER, JJ.) (holding military had authority to detain UnitedStates citizen "enemy combatant," captured in a "zone of active combat in a foreign theater of conflict," specificallyAfghanistan, and stressing, in a "narrow" holding, that "[a]ctive combat operations against Taliban fighters . . . [were] ongoing in Afghanistan" (emphasis added)).
The Government, of course, contests petitioners' arguments on the merits. But I do not here say petitioners are correct; I say only that the questions presented are significant ones warranting our review. 
If petitioners have the right of access to habeas corpusin the federal courts, this Court would then have to consider whether Congress' provision in the Detainee Treatment Act of 2005 (DTA), Tit. X, 119 Stat. 2739, providing for review in the Court of Appeals for the D. C. Circuit ofthose proceedings, is a constitutionally adequate substitute for habeas corpus. See Swain v. Pressley, 430 U. S. 372, 381 (1977). The Government argues that we should therefore wait for a case where, unlike petitioners here, the detainee seeking certiorari has actually sought and received review under these alternative means. E.g., Brief in Opposition 16 - 17. Petitioners respond, however, thatfurther proceedings in the Court of Appeals under the DTA could not possibly remedy a constitutional violation. The lower court expressly indicated that no constitutional rights (not merely the right to habeas) extend to the Guantanamo detainees. 476 F. 3d, at 991 - 992 (rejecting petitioners' arguments under this Court's precedent that fundamental rights afforded by the Constitution extend toGuantanamo, and noting that "[p]recedent in this circuitalso forecloses the detainees' claims to constitutional rights"). Therefore, it is irrelevant, to petitioners, that theDTA provides for review in the D. C. Circuit of any constitutional infirmities in the proceedings under that Act, §1005(e)(2)(C)(ii), 119 Stat. 2742; the lower court hasalready rendered that provision a nullity. 
Nor will further percolation of the question presented offer elucidation as to either the threshold questionwhether petitioners have a right to habeas, or the questionwhether the DTA provides a constitutionally adequate substitute. It is unreasonable to suggest that the D. C. Circuit in future proceedings under the DTA will provide review that affords petitioners the rights that the Circuithas already concluded they do not have. Ordinarily, ha beas petitioners need not exhaust a remedy that is inadequate to vindicate the asserted right. See Wilwording v. Swenson, 404 U. S. 249, 250 (1971) (per curiam). 
The Government, in Hamdan v. Rumsfeld, 548 U. S. ___ (2006), similarly argued for delay. Id., at ___ (slip op., at52) ("The Government objects to our consideration of anyprocedural challenge at this stage on the grounds that . . . [petitioner] will be able to raise any such challenge following a 'final decision' under the DTA"). That case, too, presented questions of the scope of the Guantanamo detainees' right to federal-court review of DTA-authorizedprocedures. We there rejected the Government's argument for delay as unsound. Id., at ___ - ___ (slip op., at 52 - 53) ("[C]ontrary to the Government's assertion, there is a 'basis to presume' that the procedures . . . violate the law . . . . Under these circumstances, review . . . in advance of a 'final decision' . . . is appropriate").
Here, as in Hamdan, petitioners argue that the tribunals to which they have already been subjected wereinfirm (by, inter alia, denying Petitioners counsel andaccess to evidence, Pet. for Cert. in No. 06 - 1195, p. 7). Hamdan, supra, at ___ - ___ (slip op., 35 - 36). Here, as in Hamdan, petitioners assert that these procedural infirmities cannot be corrected by review under the DTA whichprovides for no augmentation of the record on appeal and, as noted above, will provide no remedy for any constitutional violation. See DTA §1005(e)(2)(C), 119 Stat. 2742; 476 F. 3d, at 1005 (Rogers, J., dissenting). Here, as in Hamdan, supra, at ___ (slip op., at 25), petitioners have a compelling interest in assuring in advance that the procedures to which they are subject are lawful. And here, unlike Hamdan, the military tribunals in Guantanamo have completed their work; all that remains are the appeals. For all these reasons, I would grant the petitions.
Moreover, I would expedite our consideration. In the past, this Court has expedited other cases where important issues and a need for speedy consideration were atstake. In Ex parte Quirin, 317 U. S. 1 (1942), the Court decided that it should grant expedited consideration, 
"[i]n view of the public importance of the questions raised by [the] petitions and of the duty which rests on the courts, in time of war as well as in time of peace, to preserve unimpaired the constitutional safeguards of civil liberty, and because in our opinion the public interest required that we consider and decide those questions without any avoidable delay." Id., at 
19. 
See also Felker v. Turpin, 518 U. S. 651 (1996); New York Times Co. v. United States, 403 U. S. 713 (1971) (per curiam); Youngstown Sheet & Tube Co. v. Sawyer, 343 U. S. 579 (1952).
For these reasons, I would grant the petitions for certiorari and the motions to expedite the cases in accordancewith the schedule deemed acceptable (in the alternative) by the Government.

</file>

<file= AmE06_H17>

For Immediate ReleaseFor Further Information Contact:
April 20, 2006Kathy Arberg (202) 479-3211
Chief Justice John G. Roberts, Jr., today announced the appointment of James C. Duff as the director of the Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts. Duff, who has over 30 years of legislative, litigation, and management experience in Washington, D.C., comes to the position from the Baker, Donelson, Bearman, Caldwell, and Berkowitz law firm, where he has served as the managing partner of its Washington, D.C. office for six years. He succeeds Leonidas Ralph Mecham, who is retiring after 20 years as director.
The director of the Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts serves as the chief administrative officer of the federal courts under the direction and supervision of the Judicial Conference of the United States, the principal policy-making body for the federal court system. The Chief Justice serves as the presiding officer of the Conference, which is composed of the chief judges of the 13 courts of appeals, a district judge from each of the 12 geographic circuits, and the chief judge of the Court of International Trade.
Duff will be responsible for the management of the Administrative Office with approximately 900 employees, and for providing legal counsel to the judiciary and administrative support to approximately 2,000 judicial officers and 30,000 court employees. Duff will serve as advocate and liaison for the judicial branch in its relations with Congress, including working with Congressional committees to secure the judiciary's annual appropriation and executing the judiciary's $6 billion dollar annual budget. In announcing his selection, the Chief Justice noted, "Jim Duff is uniquely qualified to lead the Administrative Office at this critical time. He has proven himself to be a dedicated public servant on behalf of the judiciary. I am delighted that he has agreed to take on this responsibility and certain that he will do an excellent job."
Duff has served under two other Chief Justices. He was Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist's administrative assistant from 1996-2000, serving as the chief of staff at the U.S. Supreme Court and as liaison to the other two branches of government on behalf of the Chief Justice. He began his career as an office and courtroom assistant to Chief Justice Warren E. Burger from 1975-1979, while attending law school. After graduating from the Georgetown University Law Center in 1981, Duff became an associate and then a partner at Clifford & Warnke where he practiced in antitrust litigation and legislative matters until 1991 when most of the firm merged with Howrey & Simon. He continued with Howrey & Simon until 1996 when Chief Justice Rehnquist appointed him to be his administrative assistant. He joined Baker, Donelson, Bearman, Caldwell, and Berkowitz in 2000, where he has represented clients in various legislative corporate and litigation matters. His clients have included the Federal Judges Association, the University of Kentucky, the NCAA, and The Freedom Forum and Newseum, Inc.
Duff graduated from the University of Kentucky Honors Program in 1975 where he was Phi Beta Kappa, and received a J.D. from the Georgetown Law Center in 1981. He has taught Constitutional Law at Georgetown University since 1999, and has served on several boards, including the Capital Hospice Foundation, the Supreme Court Historical Society, and the Lawyers' Committee of the National Center for State Courts. Chief Justice Rehnquist appointed him to chair the Supreme Court Fellows Commission in 2005.
Duff is married to Kathleen Gallagher Duff. They have three children, Matthew, Kaitlin, and Scott.
For Immediate ReleaseFor Further Information Contact:
March 21, 2006Kathy Arberg (202) 479-3211
The Supreme Court will release the audio recording of oral argument in the following case on an expedited basis: Hamdan v. Rumsfeld, scheduled on Tuesday, March 28 at 11 a.m. for 90 minutes. The audio recording will be released shortly after the conclusion of the argument.
Sources for the oral argument audio recording will be as follows: 
•The audio recording will be provided to the network pool, which will in turn provide an offsite, simultaneous feed to member news organizations. 
 
•The audio recording will be made available in the House and Senate Radio and Television Galleries at the U. S. Capitol on Capitol Hill DA #9. Only press holding proper Congressional credentials will be allowed in the Galleries. 
 
 
•An off-site mult-box is available in front of the ABC Washington News Bureau at 1717 DeSales Street, NW by request only. News organizations that are not part of the radio/TV pool systems may plug in at that location. There is no on-site parking available. Contact Rusty Lutz at (202)-222-7600 to make arrangements. 
 
Playback of the audio will be provided as soon as possible following the conclusion of the oral argument. The recording of the argument will be played in its entirety one time only. The feed of this recording is intended for broadcasters only. Contact ABC News at (202) 222-7600 for more information.

TO THE PRESS CORPSFor Further Information Contact:
April 20, 2006Kathy Arberg (202) 479-3211
The Supreme Court of the United States will honor the memory of the late Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist on June 15 with a meeting of the Supreme Court's Bar, followed by a special sitting of the Court.
The Bar meeting-at 2 p.m. in the Upper Great Hall-will feature remarks by the Solicitor General of the United States Paul D. Clement; Associate Deputy Attorney General Ronald J. Tenpas; Hogan & Hartson partner Allen R. Snyder; James C. Rehnquist, son of Chief Justice Rehnquist; Latham & Watkins partner Maureen E. Mahoney; Deputy Chief of Staff and Counselor to the Attorney General Courtney Simmons Elwood; and Baker, Donelson, Bearman, Caldwell & Berkowitz partner James C. Duff. Ronald J. Tenpas will serve as chairman of the meeting. At the meeting's conclusion, Bar members are expected to adopt a commemorative resolution. The Honorable Steven M. Colloton, Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit, serves as chairman of the Bar's Committee on Resolutions. Ronald J. Tenpas, Allen R. Snyder, Maureen E. Mahoney, Courtney Simmons Elwood, and Steven M. Colloton all clerked for Chief Justice Rehnquist.
A Special Session of the Court will be held in the Courtroom at 3:15 p.m. U. S. Solicitor General Paul Clement and Deputy Attorney General of the United States Paul McNulty will address the Court. Chief Justice John G. Roberts, Jr. will respond on behalf of the Court. Attendance at the memorial sitting and meeting of the Bar is by invitation.
Members of the press corps are welcome to attend both events; please notify the Public Information Office if you intend to do so. The reception that follows the memorial sitting is closed to the press. We will make every effort to provide copies of all remarks as well as the commemorative resolution in advance.
For Immediate Release
May 9, 2006
The University of Arizona James E. Rogers College of Law announced today that Sally M. Rider, administrative assistant to Chief Justice John G. Roberts, Jr., has been named director of The William H. Rehnquist Center on the Constitutional Structures of Government, a nonpartisan national research center being established by the University to honor the legacy of the late Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist.
Rider, 48, served for five years as Chief Justice Rehnquist's administrative assistant and has served in the same capacity for Chief Justice John G. Roberts, Jr., since his appointment to the Court on September 29, 2005. As the administrative assistant to the Chief Justice, Rider has served as the Court's chief of staff and has assisted the Chief Justice in his overall management of the Court and with his other responsibilities as head of the Third Branch of government. Chief Justice Roberts said of Rider's selection, "Over the past term, Sally Rider's assistance has been invaluable with respect to administrative and management issues within the Court and throughout the federal judiciary as a whole, as well as with respect to relations with the other branches of the federal government, the state courts, and the judiciaries of other nations. Sally handled the broadest range of important responsibilities with sterling efficiency and gracious aplomb. I applaud the Rehnquist Center on a perfect choice for director. Sally will be greatly missed at the Court and throughout the federal judiciary, but I take comfort in the fact that her talents and energies will be devoted to making the Rehnquist Center a vital and vibrant memorial worthy of its namesake."
The Rehnquist Center will be devoted to nonpartisan academic research, policy analysis, national and international judicial exchange, and educational outreach. Rider will assume her duties as director of the Rehnquist Center in September, 2006. The Rehnquist Center is slated to open in Tucson in the fall of 2007.
Rider served as staff counsel to the United States House of Representatives Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs from 1986 to 1987. From 1987 to 1990 she was a trial attorney in the Civil Division of the Department of Justice. She was an assistant United States attorney in the District of Columbia from 1990 to 1995 and from 1995 to 1998 she was an attorney adviser and then deputy assistant legal adviser at the Department of State. Prior to working for the Chief Justice, Rider was deputy chief of the Civil Division in the Office of the United States Attorney for the District of Columbia. Rider received a B.A. from the University of Arizona, graduating Phi Beta Kappa, with high distinction, in 1980. She received her J.D. with high distinction in 1986 from the University of Arizona College of Law.
Rider is executive director of the Supreme Court Fellows Program and serves on the Judicial Conduct and Disability Act Study Committee, a committee appointed by Chief Justice Rehnquist that is evaluating how the federal judicial system is dealing with judicial misbehavior and disability
For Immediate Release
September 14, 2006
Beginning with the October 2006 Term, the Court will make the transcripts of oral arguments available free to the public on its Web site, www.supremecourtus.gov, on the same day an argument is heard by the Court.
In the past, the transcripts had been posted on the Web site approximately two weeks after the close of an argument session. Previously, transcripts could be obtained sooner than they were posted on the Court's Web site by making arrangements in advance and purchasing them from the Court's contract reporting service.
In the past, oral arguments had been transcribed off-site from audio recordings. The Court's current contract reporting service, Alderson Reporting Company, will now utilize the services of a court reporter in the Courtroom and high-speed technology to transcribe the oral arguments more quickly.
Transcripts can be located by clicking on the "Oral Arguments" prompt on the home page of the Court's Web site and selecting "Argument Transcripts."
Transcripts will be listed by case name and the date of oral argument. Transcripts are permanently archived beginning with the 2000 Term on the Court's Web site. Transcripts prior to the 2000 Term are maintained in the Court's Library.
For Immediate Release
September 19, 2006
Chief Justice John G. Roberts, Jr., today released the Report of the Judiciary's Committee to study the implementation of the Judicial Conduct and Disability Act of 1980. In May 2004 the Chief Justice's predecessor, William H. Rehnquist, responding to concerns expressed by members of Congress, appointed the Committee to study the Judiciary's implementation of the Act and to report its findings to him. Chief Justice Roberts asked the Committee to continue its work. Justice Stephen Breyer, who chairs the Committee, transmitted the report to the Chief Justice yesterday. The other members of the Committee are Pasco M. Bowman, Senior U.S. Circuit Judge, Eighth Circuit, Sarah Evans Barker, U.S. District Court, Southern District of Indiana, J. Harvie Wilkinson, III, U.S. Circuit Judge, Fourth Circuit, D. Brock Hornby, U.S. District Judge, District of Maine, and Sally M. Rider, Administrative Assistant to the Chief Justice. Staff work was performed principally by three senior members of the Federal Judicial Center and one from the Administrative Office.

</file>

<file= AmE06_H18>

The Rich Variety
of U.S. Diplomacy
The Department displays a few of its
many diplomatic faces in this month's State
Magazine.
As Americans watch with growing
unease the spread across the globe of a particularly
virulent strain of avian influenza
that might spawn a human influenza pandemic,
the Department has taken a leading
international role in what could be the
most important health initiative of the
decade. The Department put together the
Avian Influenza Action
Group to coordinate
the overall international
response to avian and
a possible pandemic
influenza.
The new group
ensures that State has
the necessary staff,
expertise and interagency
reach to tackle
the huge job and to
practice health diplomacy
on a global scale.
Meanwhile, the professionals
in the Office
of International Health
Affairs work on the broader global health
picture.With a diverse team of Civil Service
employees, Foreign Service officers and scientific
fellows, this group promotes global
health to improve U.S. security and global
economic health. The eclectic staff concentrates
on infectious diseases, bioterrorism
and environmental health.
The Berlin Wall may be history and the
Cold War relegated to the academic world,
but Russia remains a major world power
and is a growing global economic player.
U.S. interests still require an intense bilateral
relationship with Russia, and the Russian
Affairs Office is charged with managing
this critical and complicated relationship.
While the Soviet Union and its system are
dead and buried, the new Russia doesn't
hesitate to follow its own course when its
interests diverge from U.S. interests. As one senior officer in the office says, there's never
a dull day.
Science and diplomacy may seem
strange bedfellows, but Under Secretary for
Democracy and Global Affairs Dr. Paula
Dobriansky makes a strong case in The Art
of Science Diplomacy that science and
technology can improve the lives of people
around the world and build bridges
between the U.S. and foreign societies. That
sounds like a solid definition of diplomacy
at work.
Reaching deep into
the spirit of transformation
diplomacy,
the diplomats at the
U.S. Mission in Côte
d'Ivoire took advantage
of a new embassy
complex to change
local perceptions,
highlight common
ground and foster
mutual understanding.
Working with the professionals
at Overseas
Buildings Operations,
the embassy turned its
spacious atrium into a vast gallery featuring
local art and artists alongside other
cultural items.
The ambassador also invited traditional
chiefs to perform ceremonies asking their
ancestors to bless and protect the new
embassy. And the embassy staff took diplomacy
outside the capital and corridors of
power by spending many hours in remote
villages across the government-controlled
south.
They give local people a real American
image to ponder.

DAVID FOY HONORS CONTINUE
The Bureau of Overseas Buildings
Operations has renamed its Facilities
Manager of the Year award the David E.
Foy Memorial Award for Excellence in
Facilities Management. Mr. Foy, a facilities
manager at the U.S. Consulate in Karachi,
Pakistan, was killed March 2 by a suicide
bomber who rammed his car into Mr.
Foy's vehicle. (See "3 Days in Karachi,"
May issue, p. 24.)
Mr. Foy, who was 51, was a devoted
family man who left a wife and four
daughters. They attended the American
Foreign Service Association Memorial
Plaque Ceremony May 5 presided over by
Secretary Condoleezza Rice, where David
and three other fallen colleagues were
honored.
On April 25, Congressman G.K.
Butterfield, representing Mr. Foy's home
state of North Carolina, paid tribute to
him on the floor of Congress.

Taking It On the Road:
Beijing IT Training a Hit
In early February, Fred Febo, a computer
instructor from the Foreign Service
Institute's Information Management
Training unit in the School of Applied
Information Technology traveled to the U.S.
Embassy in Beijing, China, to support the
rollout of Microsoft Office 2003 to the
embassy staff.
Doug Towns, a member of the
Information Management staff in Beijing,
worked closely with Mr. Febo and the management
of SAIT and IMT in designing
customized "just-in-time" training when
and where it was needed. The training was funded locally and open to all Department
personnel at post.
The response was overwhelming. Mr.
Febo's visit was extended three times to
meet the demand. In the end, more than 300
students completed the training.
Participants came from three Chinese
diplomatic posts: Beijing, Guangzhou and
Shanghai.
Applications taught included introductory
and intermediate levels of the entire
Microsoft Office 2003 Suite: Word,
PowerPoint,Access, Excel and Outlook. Two
additional weeklong classes - one in Word and one in Excel - were offered to help
office management specialists obtain internationally
recognized certification as
Microsoft Office Specialists.
Woody Miller, the information management
officer in Beijing, said bringing FSI's
instructor to post rather than sending
employees back to Washington for training
resulted in a hundred-fold increase in the
number of people benefiting. In addition,
since the training was customized for
Beijing, examples used in class incorporated
real-world, day-to-day issues faced by staff
members in their jobs. A local outside
vendor could not have provided this type of
knowledge.
"There is no way we could have trained
the number of people we did without this
program," said Doug Towns.
Comments from participants on the class
evaluations were overwhelmingly positive.

SO WE WILL
NEVER FORGET
One of the first U.S. soldiers to discover and liberate a Nazi
concentration camp spoke at the State Department recently,
telling employees about the horrors he and his fellow soldiers
found when they came upon the Ohrdruf camp in 1945. Retired
U.S.Army Colonel Willis B. Scudder, 90, was the keynote speaker
at the Department's Holocaust Days of Remembrance event on
April 24 at the Harry S Truman building.
As Scudder and the 4th Armored Division
approached the camp that day, they saw many
people walking the roads, including families and
youngsters by themselves, said Scudder. When
they came up a gravel road, which was lined by a
fence, they could almost immediately detect an
odor. They found the gates of the camp open, and
went in.
"On our right were bodies - about 50 or so.
They had been shot in the head," said Scudder.
"People who were members of the camp were in
rags and pajama-like concoctions. They didn't
know who we were, and we didn't know who they
were. They wanted to touch us; they wanted to kiss
us.We didn't know what to do."
"We next went to a shack. Inside there were
bodies. They were stacked perfectly, stacked like
cordwood. There were a couple hundred of them.
"We went to the barracks. The stench there was almost unbearable. On the floor, there were
bodies. Living bodies, if you like," said Scudder. "At
a field, we saw where the bodies had been burned."
As Scudder spoke, he became emotional several times and
briefly had to stop talking.
Years later, Scudder returned to the camp. He questioned
several of the townspeople, but everyone said they were
unaware that there had been a concentration camp in the area.
Ambassador Edward O'Donnell, U.S. Special Envoy for
Holocaust Issues, also spoke at the event.
"An important part of the War on Terror is the struggle
against intolerance and hatred," said O'Donnell. To fight against
anti-Semitism and to pass this fight on to our sons and daughters,
it is important to attend events like this, he said.
More than 50 people attended the observance, which was
organized by the Office of Civil Rights.

Green to Go

The Department of State achieved
"Green" for both status and progress on
the President's Management Agenda
Federal Real Property Initiative. Secretary
Condoleezza Rice announced the
achievement during an April 11 tour
of the Bureau of Overseas Buildings
Operation with Under Secretary for
Management Henrietta Fore.
The Office of Management and Budget
awarded Green status to OBO two quarters
ahead of its published schedule. The
Department achieved the coveted status
by demonstrating its ability to dispose of
surplus assets, maintain assets in the right
condition and operate at the right cost.
This meant preparing a comprehensive
Asset Management Plan, a three-year
rolling timeline of initiatives, numerous
performance measures and a shared
Department-U. S. Agency for Inter-national
Development real property inventory.
The Department is one of two government
agencies to achieve Green for this
Initiative.

SENATE CONFIRMS
VETERAN AMBASSADOR
AS NEW DG
The U.S. Senate has confirmed
Ambassador George M.
Staples as the new Director
General of the Foreign Service
and Director of the Bureau of
Human Resources.
Ambassador Staples has
been a career member of the
Foreign Service for 25 years
and was most recently political
advisor to the Supreme Allied
Commander Europe at NATO
in Belgium. Before his NATO
assignment, ambassador
Staples served as ambassador
to Rwanda, Cameroon and
Equatorial Guinea. He also
served as deputy chief of
mission in Bahrain and
Zimbabwe, senior watch officer
in the Operations Center and senior Turkey desk officer in
the Bureau of European Affairs
during the first Gulf War. His
other overseas assignments
include the Bahamas, Uruguay
and El Salvador.
Before joining the
Department, he served as an
officer in the Air Force and a
manager in private industry.
He speaks French, Spanish
and Turkish.
Ambassador Staples was
born in Knoxville, Tenn. He
received his B.A. in political
science from the University of
Southern California and an
M.A. in business from Central
Michigan University.
He and his wife Jo Ann have
one daughter, Catherine.

Sanaa Social
Club Races
for Yemeni
Women
A U.S. Embassy in Sanaa social club organized
a charity run/walk March 16 that raised
more than $400 for a local organization that
helps rural women and families escape
domestic abuse.
Some 75 runners and walkers from the
embassy and the Sanaa diplomatic community
volunteered to participate, generating enough
contributions to outfit the Ibb Women's
Association with a television, VCR and videotapes
to train women in basic professional
skills. Armed with these skills, the women will be more able to live
on their own.
Association Director Mona Ali said women living in rural areas
have difficulty finding help when they most need it.
"When I founded this organization, there was nothing to help
women who were getting divorced," she said, adding that some of
the most difficult cases were women who tried to leave a relation A U.S. Embassy in Sanaa social club organized
a charity run/walk March 16 that raised
more than $400 for a local organization that
helps rural women and families escape
domestic abuse.
Some 75 runners and walkers from the
embassy and the Sanaa diplomatic community
volunteered to participate, generating enough
contributions to outfit the Ibb Women's
Association with a television, VCR and videotapes
to train women in basic professional
skills. Armed with these skills, the women will be more able to live
on their own.
Association Director Mona Ali said women living in rural areas
have difficulty finding help when they most need it.
"When I founded this organization, there was nothing to help
women who were getting divorced," she said, adding that some of
the most difficult cases were women who tried to leave a relationship
that was abusive for them or their children. For these families,
the association provides referrals, home visits and training.
The embassy hopes its modest donation of equipment, resources
and cash will allow Ali's group to assist more women and families
in rural Yemen who might not even know such resources exist, said
Ambassador Thomas Krajeski.
"We respect the good work that the Ibb Women's Association is
doing to assist rural women with domestic problems," he said.
Security and
Prosperity
Partnership
Bureau of Western Hemisphere Affairs
Assistant Secretary Tom Shannon presents
letters of appreciation from President
George W. Bush to Department staff who
contributed to the development and implementation
of the Security and Prosperity
Partnership of North America. From left:
Robin Mathewman, Sigrid Emrich,
Antoinette Condo, Eugene Aaron, Steve
Royster, Assistant Secretary Shannon,
Maurice Parker, Evelyn Wheeler, Terry
Breese, Mitchell Optican, and Robert
Sorenson. Not included: Shaun Donnelly,
Tony Wayne, Linda Jewell, Roberta Jacobson,
Under Secretary Paula Dobriansky and
Roger Noriega.

Ambassador Aubrey Hooks, standing, is crowned honorary chief of the
Western Ivoirian village of Aboisso during a ceremony with the King of the
Sanwi people, Nana Amon Ndouffou V.

</file>

<file= AmE06_H19>

ENERGY POLICY ACT OF 2005
Significant Policy Changes
The Energy Policy Act of 2005 (EPAct) is the first major energy law enacted in
more than a decade, and makes the most significant changes in Commission authority
since the New Deal's Federal Power Act of 1935 and the Natural Gas Act of 1938. In
passing EPAct, Congress signaled a strong vote of confidence in the Commission. The
Commission has taken on new duties and authorities with a sense of purpose, mindful of
the public trust they entail. Moreover, the Commission has been dedicated to meeting
these obligations within the time allotted by Congress.
EPAct had three principal policy goals in the areas of the statute that relate to the
Commission: (1) it reaffirmed a commitment to competition in wholesale power markets
as national policy, the third major federal law in the last 30 years to do so; (2) it
strengthened the Commission's regulatory tools, recognizing that effective regulation is
necessary to protect the consumer from exploitation and assure fair competition; and (3)
it provided for development of a stronger energy infrastructure.
EPAct granted the Commission significant new responsibilities and significant
new authority to discharge these responsibilities by modifying the Federal Power Act, the
Natural Gas Act and the Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act of 1978 (PURPA).
New Responsibilities
Significant new responsibilities include:
• overseeing the reliability of the nation's electricity transmission grid;
• implementing new tools, including penalty authority, to prevent market
manipulation;
• providing rate incentives to promote electric transmission investment;
• supplementing state transmission siting efforts in national interest electric
transmission corridors; and
• reviewing certain holding company mergers and acquisitions involving electric
utility facilities, a well as certain public utility acquisitions of generating facilities.
EPAct also specified a number of actions to be taken by the Commission. In
fulfilling these requirements during the first year since EPAct was signed into law on
August 8, 2005, the Commission has promulgated nine final rules, issued three additional
notices of proposed rulemaking, authored and submitted seven reports to Congress, and
entered into a memorandum of understanding with the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission. The Commission has taken these actions in a timely manner  -  meeting
every deadline set for the Commission in EPAct.
Some of these deadlines were challenging, particularly the task of implementing
the repeal of the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935 (PUHCA 1935) and
promulgating a new rule to implement the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 2005,
as well as implementing rules to address the Commission's expanded corporate
transaction review authority under the Federal Power Act.
Market Manipulation
EPAct gave the Commission the authority to issue rules to prevent market
manipulation in jurisdictional wholesale power and gas markets, and in jurisdictional
transmission and transportation services. For the Commission, this is one of the most
important and challenging provisions of the Act. Congress granted this authority out of
recognition that wholesale power and gas markets had changed dramatically since the
1930s. While the Commission's legal duty remains the same  -  protecting the wholesale
power and gas customer  -  it needed additional regulatory tools to discharge this duty.
EPAct gives the Commission civil penalty authority, which the Commission has
indicated it will exercise carefully by assuring that its market manipulation rules are
clear. That will make it easier for regulated entities to assure compliance, and make it
easier for the Commission to identify violations.
Electricity Reliability and Infrastructure
EPAct significantly augmented the Commission's electricity authorities. Perhaps
the most important of these are the provisions governing reliability of the bulk power
system. For the first time, the Commission was granted authority to oversee mandatory
reliability standards governing the nation's electricity grid. The Commission finalized
rules on the certification of an Electric Reliability Organization (ERO) and on procedures
for the establishment, approval and enforcement of mandatory electric reliability
standards. The Commission has now certified the ERO and issued a preliminary staff
assessment of 102 reliability standards filed by the ERO for Commission approval.
EPAct also contained a number of provisions directed at expanding and
modernizing the nation's electricity grid. The Commission has issued a rule on electric
transmission pricing reforms designed to promote needed investment in energy
infrastructure and benefit energy customers. This will bolster power grid reliability and
lower costs for delivered power by reducing transmission congestion. In addition, the
Commission issued a rule to require transmission organizations with organized electricity
markets to make available to load-serving entities long-term firm transmission rights that
satisfy certain guidelines. This will help customers who want to make long term supply
arrangements. These customers want to be able to enter into long term transmission
service arrangements without being exposed to unhedged congestion cost risk. The final
rule goes far to reduce the risk exposure to transmission customers, and is important to
development of the grid.
EPAct addressed the difficulties of siting major new transmission facilities. It
authorized the Secretary of Energy to designate "national interest electric transmission
corridors" where there is major transmission congestion. EPAct allows applicants
seeking to build transmission within these corridors to seek construction permits from the
Commission under certain conditions. While most transmission projects will continue to
be sited by states under state law, EPAct granted the Commission this important
supplemental siting authority. FERC has proposed rules on transmission siting that will
govern the issuance of construction permits by the Commission for projects that meet the
statutory criteria.
Also with respect to transmission, the Commission signed a Memorandum of
Understanding with the Department of Energy and other federal agencies with authority
to issue federal authorizations for electric transmission facilities to establish a
coordinated federal review and permitting process that continues strong federal
environmental protections.
In addition to the provisions relating to transmission grid improvements, EPAct
addressed a significant generation issue within the jurisdiction of the Commission.
Pursuant to directives in EPAct, the Commission tightened the thermal efficiency
requirements for qualifying cogeneration facilities under PURPA. These rules should
limit the potential for abuse under PURPA, curtail sham transactions, and prevent new
PURPA "machines." At the same time, the rules support the development of new
cogeneration facilities that truly conserve energy, by ensuring that new qualifying
cogeneration facilities use thermal output in a productive and beneficial manner, and that
the electrical, thermal, chemical or mechanical output of new qualifying cogeneration
facilities is used fundamentally for industrial, commercial or institutional purposes. Also
pursuant to EPAct amendments to the Federal Power Act, the Commission eliminated
ownership restrictions on qualifying cogeneration and small power production facilities.
Only minor changes to the Commission's hydroelectric regulations were enacted
with the passage of EPAct. For example, the first action the Commission took upon
enactment of the law was to extend the Flint Creek Project preliminary permit for three
years. Pursuant to section 241 of EPAct, the Commission has worked with other resource
agencies to develop mandatory license conditions that are fairer and more balanced. The
Commission also has issued a guidance document to help hydropower licensees seeking
renewable tax credit certification for incremental energy gains from efficiency
improvements.
Natural Gas Infrastructure
Pursuant to EPAct, the Commission has acted to encourage more investment in the
nation's natural gas infrastructure. In order to promote the expansion of natural gas
storage capacity and mitigate natural gas price volatility, the Commission has issued new
rules for allowing market-based rates for interstate natural gas storage.
To decrease the time needed for creating a complete application for new liquefied
natural gas (LNG) terminals, the Commission adopted a rule requiring potential developers to
initiate pre-filing procedures at least six months prior to filing a formal application with
the Commission. The Commission has proposed rules to implement provisions that grant
authority to coordinate the processing of federal and state authorizations required under
federal law for natural gas projects, as well as maintain a consolidated record of decisions
for judicial review.
Mergers and Acquisitions
Pursuant to EPAct, the Commission implemented the repeal of PUHCA 1935 and
the provisions of a new PUHCA 2005. PUHCA 2005 permits Commission access to
books and records of holding companies and their members if necessary for determining
jurisdictional rates. The Commission implemented PUHCA rules governing accounting,
record retention and reporting, including certain blanket waivers and exemptions, within
the deadlines in EPAct.
Along with the repeal of PUHCA 1935, EPAct expanded the Commission's
corporate review authority to include authority over certain holding company mergers
and acquisitions, as well as certain public utility acquisitions of generating facilities. It
also imposed statutory deadlines for acting on mergers and other jurisdictional corporate
transactions. The Commission implemented these new provisions of EPAct by providing
blanket authorizations for certain transactions while ensuring that captive utility
customers are protected. The Commission acted quickly, so that new rules would be in
effect before the effective dates of the new corporate review authority and PUHCA 2005,
and the repeal of PUHCA 1935, all of which became effective on February 8, 2006.
Studies and Reports
The Commission has issued seven reports as mandated by EPAct. In December
2005, the Commission issued a report on its investigation of the California electricity
crisis, detailing the actions the Commission has taken and the timetable for future action
to resolve outstanding refund claims from this time period. Also in December, the
Commission submitted to Congress a report on whether any PUHCA technical and
conforming changes were needed as a result of the repeal of the 1935 act. In February
2006, the Commission together with the Department of Energy issued a report on the
steps which must be taken to establish a system to make available to all transmission
owners and regional transmission organizations in the Eastern and Western
interconnections real-time information on the functional status of all transmission lines
within the interconnections. Also in February, the Commission issued its initial report on
the progress made in licensing and constructing the Alaska natural gas pipeline; and a
subsequent progress report was issued in July 2006, as required by EPAct.
Meeting EPAct deadlines of August 8, 2006, the Commission issued two
additional reports. First is a report assessing, by region, demand response resources and
the use of advanced metering resources. The second is a report detailing the
recommendations of regional joint boards to study the issue of security-constrained
economic dispatch for the various market regions, what constitutes security-constrained
economic dispatch and how it affects or enhances the reliability and affordability of
electric service.
Future Responsibilities of the Commission
Other EPAct requirements that the Commission will be implementing in the
future:
• Approve or remand more than 100 separate proposed electric reliability standards,
act on proposed regional delegation agreements, and oversee the effective
enforcement of approved mandatory reliability standards.
• Issue a final rule setting up procedures for the Commission to exercise its siting
authority for transmission applications in national interest transmission corridors.
• Issue a final rule on termination of the mandatory purchase obligation under
section 210 of PURPA.
• Issue a final rule on coordinating the processing of interstate natural gas
infrastructure proposals among federal and state authorities and to maintain a
consolidated record of decisions for judicial review.
• Enter into a Memorandum of Understanding with the Secretary of Defense to
ensure coordination of LNG facilities that may affect an active military
installation.
• Work jointly with other resource agencies to designate corridors for oil, gas, and
hydrogen pipelines and electricity transmission and distribution facilities on
federal land in the 11 contiguous Western states, perform environmental reviews
for such designations and incorporate the designated corridors into the relevant
agency land use and resource management plans.
• Along with the Department of Energy, study and submit a report to Congress on
the benefits of cogeneration and small power production.
• Determine the appropriate exercise of authority under new Federal Power Act and
Natural Gas Act transparency provisions.
• Along with the Departments of Justice, Energy, Agriculture and the Federal Trade
Commission, submit a report to Congress on competition within the wholesale and
retail markets for electric energy in the United States.

</file>

<file= AmE06_H20>

Treasury Secretary John W. Snow Statement on the 2006 Social Security and Medicare Trust Fund Reports 

Welcome to the Treasury Department. The Social Security and Medicare Board of Trustees met here this afternoon to complete their annual financial review of the programs and to transmit the Trustees' Reports to Congress.  I welcome my Cabinet colleagues and the Public Trustees, Tom Saving and John Palmer, two well-respected and esteemed experts in their field, appointed by the previous Administration and now recently reappointed.  The nation is indeed fortunate to have your continued service.
The two programs form the basis of a looming fiscal crisis as the baby boom generation moves into retirement.  If we do not take action soon to reform both Social Security and Medicare, the coming demographic bulge will drive Federal spending to unprecedented levels, consume nearly all projected federal revenues, and threaten the Nation's future prosperity.  Current trends are clearly not sustainable.  The President has shown his serious intent and foresight with his call in this year's State of the Union address for a bi-partisan panel on entitlement reform.  
Let me first briefly highlight this year's Social Security report. It demonstrates, as we've known for some time, that the Social Security program continues to be seriously under-funded and financially unsustainable in the long run. Cash flows are projected to peak in 2008 and turn negative in 2017 -- the same dates as in last year's report.  However, the Trust Funds are projected to be exhausted in 2040 � this is one year earlier than last year's report, due to revised assumptions reflecting the latest assessment of economic and demographic conditions.  
The unfunded obligation, that is, the difference between the present values of Social Security inflows and outflows less the existing trust fund, is $4.6 trillion over the next 75 years and $13.4 trillion on a permanent basis. The actuarial imbalance expressed as a percent of taxable payroll is -2.02 percent over 75 years and -3.7 percent over the indefinite future. This means that taxes would have to be raised immediately about 1/3 above the present level (by 3.7 percentage points), or benefits reduced immediately by 22 percent, to make the system whole on a permanent basis. 
This report confirms the wisdom of the President's call for action last year and his consistent message that the sooner we take action to shore up Social Security's finances, the less severe needed reforms will be.  Each year that passes without reform makes the ultimate resolution more difficult and more unfair.  As he called for in the State of the Union address, solutions that generate a permanently sustainable Social Security system will require bipartisan efforts.  The President has put forward a number of well-considered ideas.  Now we need serious and thoughtful engagement from all sides to make sure Social Security is strengthened and sustained for future generations.  
Let me now offer a few words on the 2006 Medicare Trustees' Report, which reveals even greater and far reaching fiscal challenges. While Medicare faces the same demographic trends as Social Security, it is additionally burdened by steady large increases in underlying health care costs. 
Cash flow for the Hospital Insurance (HI) Trust Fund is projected to be negative this year and for all subsequent years. The HI Trust Fund is projected to become insolvent in 2018, two years earlier than projected in last year's report, and the 75-year estimated actuarial imbalance as a percent of payroll is -3.51, a 0.42 percentage point deterioration from last year's report.  This deterioration is due primarily to new evidence on program experience showing higher spending on hospital and other provider care.  On a permanent basis, this imbalance is unchanged at -5.8 percent of payroll. 
The Supplementary Medical Insurance (SMI) Trust Fund, which includes Part B for outpatient services and the new Part D prescription drug benefit, is financed in large part by general revenues as well as beneficiary premiums. SMI expenditures are projected to increase rapidly, resulting in growing pressures on future federal budgets and, in turn, the U.S. economy.  General revenue financing for SMI is expected to increase from 1.0 percent of GDP in 2005 to nearly 5.0 percent in 2080.  
For the first time we are dealing with a report in which the new prescription drug benefit is in full effect.  Giving seniors access to affordable prescription drug coverage corrected a serious flaw in the structure of Medicare.
There is some good news we are pleased to report on the prescription drug benefit.  Premiums for Part D are sharply lower than projected.  These lower premiums indicate that competition has driven down costs and highlight the value of the market-based structure of the program.
The new prescription drug benefit has been a success.  Now, seniors all over America have guaranteed access to affordable prescription drug coverage.  The deadline for enrollment in the program is May 15, and enrollment has so far exceeded the expectations the Administration put forward earlier this year.  Moreover, the average cost of the premiums paid by seniors for 2006 is considerably lower than what the Trustees originally anticipated.  As the May 15 deadline approaches, I want to strongly encourage seniors who have not done so already to enroll in this new program.  
In recognizing the need to provide seniors with prescription drug benefits, Congress also recognized the critical importance of doing so in a fiscally responsible manner.  With commendable foresight, Congress wisely included new cost containment provisions that can trigger a Congressional review of Medicare's finances.  This year's report represents the first stage in that process -- when general revenues begin to exceed 45% of Medicare's total outlays.  If this trend continues as expected, the Administration and Congress will need to consider ways to address Medicare's finances.
In closing, while we are pleased with the modernizing reforms that brought us the new prescription drug benefit, there is no escaping the reality that further reforms to both Medicare and Social Security need to be made.  The serious concerns raised by the Trustees' Reports demand the attention of America's policymakers and the public. Those who depend on Social Security and Medicare urgently need the best efforts of those of us in public life and in the private sector to address the long-term funding issues. Successful long-term reform of these programs should be seen as a shared responsibility, and not as an opportunity to engage in short-term politics.

Assistant Secretary of the Office of Economic Policy Mark J. Warshawsky Statement 

5/1/2006 
hp-1365
 For the Treasury Borrowing Advisory Committee of the Bond Market Association
A much more buoyant economy has emerged in the three months since the Committee last met. On Friday, the Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA) announced that real GDP grew at the fastest rate in two and a half years. Payroll employment has rebounded strongly from hurricane-depressed levels last fall and the unemployment rate has receded further. Core inflation remains benign.
Real GDP grew at a 4.8 percent annual rate in the first quarter, according to the BEA's advance estimate. This followed a 1.7 percent pace of growth in the fourth quarter and was the strongest performance since the Jobs and Growth Act boosted real GDP to a 7.2 percent annual rate of growth in the third quarter of 2003. 
The favorable showing comes as no surprise. By early February, the consensus of private forecasters was already predicting first-quarter growth in excess of 4 percent. In part, this represented the reasonable expectation of a rebound after a series of special factors had depressed fourth-quarter growth. Among those factors were a decline in motor vehicle sales following an outsized gain in the third quarter, a sharp rise in oil imports to offset the fall in production caused by Hurricane Katrina, and an anomalous drop in Federal spending.
In addition, it was evident that the stage was being set late last year for a stronger pace of growth at the beginning of 2006. In particular, personal consumption expenditures rose sharply in November and December, starting the first quarter off at a high level, and solid gains continued into the new year. As a result, real personal consumption expenditures rose at a healthy 5.5 percent annual rate in the first quarter of this year. The trade deficit continued to widen but by less than in the fourth quarter, as domestic oil production was restored and imports of petroleum products fell. Finally, Federal government spending rebounded in the first quarter after a decline in the fourth quarter.
Other apparently temporary restraints on growth in the fourth quarter turned around in the first quarter. For instance, investment in transportation equipment soared in the first quarter after falling in the fourth, contributing to a 16.4 percent annual rate gain in investment in equipment and software in the first quarter - a six-year record. Business investment in structures, which had been a laggard throughout the expansion, also firmed, growing at an 8.6 percent pace. 
Residential investment in the first quarter rose at a 2.6 percent pace, little different from its fourth-quarter performance. Despite widespread predictions of a softening, this segment of the economy continues to hold its own after a considerable run-up over the past several years.
Overall, real GDP growth in the first quarter was very strong but because it follows on the heels of the statistically weak performance of the fourth quarter, it is reasonable to average the two quarters together to get a view of trend growth. That yields a solid real GDP increase of more than 3 percent at an annual rate.
Further evidence of an economy expanding at a solid pace is provided by labor market behavior. Employment growth stalled last fall in the wake of the hurricanes but has since bounced back strongly. Payroll job gains during the past two quarters have averaged 188,000 a month and the unemployment rate has fallen to 4.7 percent - the lowest since July 2001. Claims data from the state unemployment insurance programs suggest that labor markets remained robust through April.
Equity markets have also performed well this year, as corporate profits have continued to rise strongly. These gains are helping to boost household wealth, providing additional support for personal consumption spending.
The economy appears to be running at cruising speed, with GDP growth and job opportunities expanding at a pace that can be accommodated without inflationary pressures. Although the hike in oil prices has contributed to consumer price growth of 3.4 percent over the past year, core cpr inflation (excluding food and energy) remained at 2.1 percent in March, about where it was during 2004 and 2005.
In sum, the overall economy appears to be in a good position to continue growing at a moderate pace -likely around 3 percent - for the remaining quarters of the year. Recent developments in energy markets remind us, however, that these prospects are not without hazards. Among the most visible is the fact that consumers are once again facing gasoline prices in excess of $3 a gallon, just as they head into the summer driving season.
High gasoline prices are caused by global competition for oil, the effects of Hurricane Katrina on US. refinery capacity, as well as the rapid transition from the fuel additive MTBE to ethanol, which will entail additional costs. Exacerbating these problems is the complex system of different blends of gasoline, or "boutique fuels," required by US. localities 
Last week, President Bush presented a four-part plan that 1) ensures that American consumers are treated fairly at the pump, 2) promotes greater fuel efficiency, 3) boosts the supply of crude oil and gasoline, and 4) supports investment in alternative fuels to reduce US. demand for gasoline. Among the measures included in the President's program are a suspension of oil deposits to the Strategic Petroleum Reserve, temporary waivers to local fuel requirements, and a call for a better coordinated set of local fuel mix requirements in order to minimize the number of boutique fuels that refiners must produce. The program will help address the immediate needs of the American people by preventing fraud and price manipulation, assuring ample supplies of crude oil and gasoline from available sources, and promoting energy efficiency and improved production for the future.

</file>

<file= AmE06_H21>

Statement on Signing the Palestinian Anti-Terrorism Act of 2006
 
Today I have signed into law S. 2370, the "Palestinian Anti-Terrorism Act of 2006." The Act is designed to promote the development of democratic institutions in areas under the administrative control of the Palestinian Authority. 
Section 2 of the Act purports to establish U.S. policy with respect to various international affairs matters. My approval of the Act does not constitute my adoption of the statements of policy as U.S. foreign policy. Given the Constitution's commitment to the presidency of the authority to conduct the Nation's foreign affairs, the executive branch shall construe such policy statements as advisory. The executive branch will give section 2 the due weight that comity between the legislative and executive branches should require, to the extent consistent with U.S. foreign policy. 
The executive branch shall construe section 3(b) of the Act, which relates to access to certain information by a legislative agent, and section 11 of the Act, which relates to a report on certain assistance by foreign countries, international organizations, or multilateral development banks, in a manner consistent with the President's constitutional authority to withhold information that could impair foreign relations, national security, the deliberative processes of the Executive, or the performance of the Executive's constitutional duties. 
Section 620K(e)(2)(A) and 620L(b)(4)(B)(i) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as enacted by sections 2(b)(2) and 3(a) of the Act, purport to require the President to consult with committees of the Congress prior to exercising certain authority granted to the President by sections 620K and 620L. Because the constitutional authority of the President to supervise the unitary executive branch and take care that the laws be faithfully executed cannot be made by law subject to a requirement to consult with congressional committees or to involve them in executive decisionmaking, the executive branch shall construe the references in the provisions to consulting to require only notification. 
The executive branch shall construe section 7 of the Act, which relates to establishing or maintaining certain facilities or establishments within the jurisdiction of the United States, in a manner consistent with the President's constitutional authority to conduct the Nation's foreign affairs, including the authority to receive ambassadors and other public ministers. 
The executive branch shall construe as advisory the provisions of the Act, including section 9, that purport to direct or burden the conduct of negotiations by the executive branch with entities abroad. Such provisions, if construed as mandatory rather than advisory, would impermissibly interfere with the President's constitutional authorities to conduct the Nation's foreign affairs, including protection of American citizens and American military and other Government personnel abroad, and to supervise the unitary executive branch.

Statement on Signing the Postal Accountability and Enhancement Act
 
Today I have signed into law H.R. 6407, the "Postal Accountability and Enhancement Act." The Act is designed to improve the quality of postal service for Americans and to strengthen the free market for delivery services. 
The executive branch shall construe sections 3662 and 3663 of title 39, United States Code, as enacted by section 205 of the Act, not to authorize an officer or agency within the executive branch to institute proceedings in Federal court against the Postal Regulatory Commission, which is another part of the executive branch, as is consistent with the constitutional authority of the President to supervise the unitary executive branch and the constitutional limitation of Federal courts to deciding cases or controversies. 
The executive branch shall construe subsection 409(h) of title 39, as enacted by section 404 of the Act, which relates to legal representation for an element of the executive branch, in a manner consistent with the constitutional authority of the President to supervise the unitary executive branch and to take care that the laws be faithfully executed. 
The executive branch shall construe section 407 of title 39, as enacted by section 405 of the Act, in a manner consistent with the President's constitutional authority to conduct the Nation's foreign affairs, including the authority to determine which officers shall negotiate for the United States and toward what objectives, to make treaties by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, and to supervise the unitary executive branch. 
The executive branch shall construe subsections 202(a) and 502(a) of title 39, as enacted by subsections 501(a) and 601(a) of the Act, which purport to limit the qualifications of the pool of persons from whom the President may select appointees in a manner that rules out a large portion of those persons best qualified by experience and knowledge to fill the positions, in a manner consistent with the Appointments Clause of the Constitution. The executive branch shall also construe as advisory the purported deadline in subsection 605(c) for the making of an appointment, as is consistent with the Appointments Clause. 
The executive branch shall construe subsection 404(c) of title 39, as enacted by subsection 1010(e) of the Act, which provides for opening of an item of a class of mail otherwise sealed against inspection, in a manner consistent, to the maximum extent permissible, with the need to conduct searches in exigent circumstances, such as to protect human life and safety against hazardous materials, and the need for physical searches specifically authorized by law for foreign intelligence collection. 
The executive branch shall construe provisions of the Act that call for executive branch officials to submit legislative recommendations to the Congress in a manner consistent with the constitutional authority of the President to supervise the unitary executive branch and to recommend for congressional consideration such measures as the President shall judge necessary and expedient. 

Statement on Signing the Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act, 2007
 
Today, I have signed into law H.R. 5441, the "Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act, 2007" (the "Act"). The Act appropriates the funds needed to protect the United States against terrorism, secure the Nation's borders, assist States and localities in dealing with natural disasters, and perform the other important functions of the Department of Homeland Security. The Act also strengthens the capabilities of the Federal Emergency Management Agency to prepare for and respond to emergencies requiring action by the Federal Government. 
The executive branch shall construe as calling solely for notification the provisions of the Act that purport to require congressional committee approval for the execution of a law. Any other construction would be inconsistent with the principles enunciated by the Supreme Court of the United States in INS v. Chadha. These provisions include those under the headings "United States Visitor and Immigrant Status Indicator Technology;" "Automation Modernization, Customs and Border Protection;" "Border Security Fencing, Infrastructure, and Technology, Customs and Border Protection;" "Air and Marine Interdiction, Operations, Maintenance, and Procurement, Customs and Border Protection;" "Automation Modernization, Immigration and Customs Enforcement;" "Protection, Administration, and Training, United States Secret Service;" "Preparedness, Management and Administration;" "United States Citizenship and Immigration Services;" "Management Administration, Science and Technology;" "Research, Development, Acquisition, and Operations, Science and Technology;" and sections 504, 505, 509, 511, and 552. 
Section 513 of the Act purports to direct the conduct of security and suitability investigations. To the extent that section 513 relates to access to classified national security information, the executive branch shall construe this provision in a manner consistent with the President's exclusive constitutional authority, as head of the unitary executive branch and as Commander in Chief, to classify and control access to national security information and to determine whether an individual is suitable to occupy a position in the executive branch with access to such information. 
To the extent that section 514 of the Act purports to allow an agent of the legislative branch to prevent implementation of the law unless the legislative agent reports to the Congress that the executive branch has met certain conditions, the executive branch shall construe such section as advisory, in accordance with the constitutional principles enumerated in the Chadha decision. 
The executive branch shall construe section 522 of the Act, relating to privacy officer reports, in a manner consistent with the President's constitutional authority to supervise the unitary executive branch. 
To the extent that provisions of the Act, such as section 558, purport to direct or burden the conduct of negotiations by the executive branch with foreign governments or other entities abroad, the executive branch shall construe them as advisory. Such provisions, if construed as mandatory rather than advisory, would impermissibly interfere with the President's constitutional authorities to conduct the Nation's foreign affairs, participate in international negotiations, and supervise the unitary executive branch. 
Provisions of the Act, including under the heading "Office of the Secretary and Executive Management" and sections 521, 539, 540, and 559, refer to joint explanatory statements of managers accompanying conference reports on specified acts. Such statements do not satisfy the constitutional requirements of bicameral approval and presentment to the President needed to give them the force of law. 
Section 503(c) of the Homeland Security Act of 2002, as amended by section 611 of the Act, provides for the appointment and certain duties of the Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency. Section 503(c)(2) vests in the President authority to appoint the Administrator, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, but purports to limit the qualifications of the pool of persons from whom the President may select the appointee in a manner that rules out a large portion of those persons best qualified by experience and knowledge to fill the office. The executive branch shall construe section 503(c)(2) in a manner consistent with the Appointments Clause of the Constitution. Also, section 503(c)(4) purports to regulate the provision of advice within the executive branch and to limit supervision of an executive branch official in the provision of advice to the Congress. The executive branch shall construe section 503(c)(4) in a manner consistent with the constitutional authority of the President to require the opinions of heads of departments and to supervise the unitary executive branch. Accordingly, the affected department and agency shall ensure that any reports or recommendations submitted to the Congress are subjected to appropriate executive branch review and approval before submission. 
Section 507(f)(6) of the Homeland Security Act of 2002, as amended by section 611 of the Act, and sections 689i(a)(4)(B)(iv) and 689j(b)(2)(E) of the Act, purport to require in certain circumstances that an executive branch official submit legislation for the consideration of the Congress. The executive branch shall construe such provisions in a manner consistent with the President's constitutional authority to supervise the unitary executive branch and to recommend for congressional consideration such measures as the President shall judge necessary and expedient. 
Several provisions of the Act purport to direct the President to perform the President's duties "acting through" a particular officer. These provisions include section 303(b) of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act, as amended by section 633 of the Act, section 1802 of the Homeland Security Act of 2002, as amended by section 671 of the Act, and sections 643, 644, 689i, and 689j of the Act. The executive branch shall construe such provisions in a manner consistent with the constitutional authority of the President to supervise the unitary executive branch. 
The executive branch shall construe provisions of the Act relating to race, ethnicity, and gender, such as sections 623 and 697 of the Act, in a manner consistent with the requirement of the Due Process Clause of the Fifth Amendment to the Constitution to afford equal protection of the laws. 
Section 1802(a) of the Homeland Security Act of 2002, as amended by section 671 of the Act, calls for the Secretary of Homeland Security "in cooperation with the Department of National Communications System (as appropriate)" and others to develop and update a National Emergency Communications Plan. An examination of the text and structure of the Act reveals that the term "Department of National Communications System" in section 1802(a) is most reasonably construed as a reference to the National Communications System in the Preparedness Directorate of the Department of Homeland Security, to which section 611 of the Act refers in amending section 505 of the Homeland Security Act of 2002, and the executive branch shall so construe it.

</file>

<file= AmE06_H22>

On October 17, 2005 Claimant filed its memorial in the Talsud & Gemplus case.
Mexico filed its counter memorial on May 31, 2006. Claimant's reply is due on
September 18, 2006 and Mexico's rejoinder on January 29, 2007.
3. WTO Developments.
Sylvie Tabet informed that in the last WTO Ministerial Meeting in Hong Kong
(13-18 December 2005) the WTO Members agreed to complete "full modalities" in
agriculture and non-agricultural market access by the new deadline they have set
themselves: 30 April 2006. Unfortunately this deadline was missed. Despite this, some
of the WTO Members like United States have been more receptive to some issues such
as market access. India and Brazil show more flexibility too. With regard to the GATS
negotiations, the deadline to submit revised offers is July 2006.
4. Bilateral Trade Negotiations.
A) Canada
Sylvie Tabet informed about Canada's trade negotiations:
3
Free Trade Agreements (FTA) Negotiations: Canada is negotiating FTA with
Peru, Singapore, Ecuador, Dominican Republic and South Korea. Negotiations with
South Korea are in an advanced stage.
Bilateral Investment Treaties (BIT) Negotiations: Canada maintains negotiations
with South Korea, China and India in order to sign a BIT. The Investment Treaty
negotiations with China and India possibly will finish at the end of this summer.
All the Canada's dispute settlement negotiations are running on the basis of the
NAFTA model.
B) United States
David Stewart informed about US trade negotiations:
FTA Negotiations: United States is carrying out talks to negotiate a FTA with
the United Arab Emirates. Negotiations with South Korea as well as with Malaysia
started this month. With respect to Ecuador, future rounds of negotiations for a FTA
have not been scheduled. At the moment there is nothing to report with regard to the
negotiations with Panama.
BIT Negotiations: United States is negotiating with Pakistan.
Concluded Agreements: On April 12, 2005, the United States signed a FTA with
Peru. In February a FTA with Colombia was concluded and currently it is under legal
review. In November 2005, the United States signed a BIT with Uruguay. In January
19, 2005 a FTA was signed with Oman. Finally, regarding the status of the CAFTADR,
it entered into force between the United States and El Salvador on March 1, 2006
and with regard to Nicaragua and Honduras on April 1, 2006 but no yet with respect to
Costa Rica, the Dominican Republic and Guatemala.
C) Mexico
Linda Pasquel and Hugo Perezcano informed about Mexico's trade negotiations:
FTA Negotiations: Mexico is currently negotiating a FTA with South Korea and
another with Peru. With respect to Argentina negotiations have just concluded.
BIT Negotiations: Mexico is currently negotiating with India and China. The
BIT with Spain is about to expire, so it is currently under review and the next round of
negotiations will take place in about two weeks.
Concluded Agreements: México concluded BIT negotiations with United
Kingdom
III. Report on UNCITRAL Working Group.
José María Abascal presented a report on the UNCITRAL Working Group. With
regard to the UNCITRAL Model Law on International Commercial Arbitration, he
4
informed that in its last meeting in January, the Working Group finished a draft on
interim measures and written form, which will be discussed by the Commission next
week in New York. With regard to interim measures, the final draft contains a new
Chapter 4 bis titled "Interim measures and preliminary orders". This new Chapter has
eleven provisions. Section I, is related to the power of arbitral tribunals to order interim
measures and conditions for granting interim measures. Section II relates to preliminary
orders and its specific regime. Section III contains provisions applicable to interim
measures and preliminary orders, such as modification, suspension, termination,
provisional security, disclosure, costs and damages. Section IV relates to the recognition
and enforcement of interim measures. Finally, Articles related with court-ordered
interim measures are contained in Section V. There is a minor proposal to modify
Article 1 in order to include one of the provisions related to the territoriality of court
enforcement.
The draft also includes a controversial proposal to modify Article 7 with regard
to the form of arbitration agreements because it includes a wide definition of what
"writing" means. In contrast to this wide definition, and as a result of a Mexico's
proposal, the draft includes an alternative text that offers a definition that makes no
reference to the term "writing". A modification to Article 35 is also proposed, it mainly
refers to the elimination of the requirement to supply the arbitration agreement when a
party is applying for the enforcement of an award.
With regard the Convention on the Recognition and Enforcement of Foreign
Arbitral Awards (New York Convention), the Working Group proposed a declaration
regarding the interpretation of Article II, paragraph 2, and Article VII, paragraph 1. It
basically recommends courts to take into consideration the Model Law, its amendments,
and the case law. It also recommends that Article II, paragraph 2 be applied recognizing
that the circumstances described therein are not exhaustive, and that Article VII,
paragraph 1, should be applied to allow any interested party to avail itself of rights it
may have, under the law or treaties of the country where an arbitration agreement is
sought to be relied upon, to seek recognition of the validity of such an arbitration
agreement.
Some of the relevant issues that will be subject to discussion in the next
UNCITRAL Meeting on June 25-June 29, are: the review and update of the
UNCITRAL Arbitration Rules, arbitrability of intellectual property rights, investment
disputes, unfair competition, and online dispute resolution.
IV. Legal Developments in each country.
1. Developments in the United States of America.
Robert Lutz reported on the recent legal developments in the United States. He
focused in some trends regarding recent developments in the United States practice in
the last year: (1) partiality in US arbitrators; (2) the use by US court of sanctions with
respect to parties who make "frivolous challenges" to the enforcement of arbitral
awards; and (3) efforts to make the arbitral process more transparent.
Regarding the first issue, there is a particular case that highlights this trend; this
is the Positive Software vs. New Century Mortgage case, where the arbitrator failed to
5
disclose that seven years before becoming an arbitrator, he and his former law firm were
co-counseling in a case with one of the law firm which was counseling one of the
parties in the quoted case. So, the arbitrator ruled in favor of the party that was
represented by that law firm. The Court of Appeals, determined that the arbitrator did
not make a proper disclosure. So, regardless of whether there was actual bias, it
determined that this situation raises an appearance of bias that satisfies the standard of
evident partiality foresee in section 10 of the US Arbitration Act, which provide that a
court may vacate an arbitral award where there was evident partiality in the arbitration.
The second trend raises the question of whether challenging arbitral awards can
be risky. Challenges and efforts to vacate arbitral awards are in fact proliferating,
whether they are meritorious or not, and there is a draft Article, written by Susan Franck
from the University of Nebraska, which identifies this trend.
Finally, there is a trend towards transparency in arbitration, particularly with
respect to investor arbitration under ICSID. Many cases highlight the fact that the
ICSID is more receptive to the "amicus curiae" figure, in particular a recent case called
"Aguas Provinciales" against Argentina, where the "amicus curiae" issue was brought
by a public group interested in the environmental impact of the decision. This group
requested to the tribunal three things, which were considered by the tribunal: (1) to
allow the petitioners to submit oral arguments at the hearings in the case as a non-party;
(2) the ability to file an "amicus curiae" brief; and (3) to have access to documents and
other information of the case. The tribunal denied the first and third petitions, however,
the tribunal granted an opportunity to the petitioners to submit an "amicus curiae" brief.
This decision was based on a criteria that essentially indicates that if the petitioner, a
third party or a non-party, shows good reason and sufficient independence of any of the
parties to bring new issues to the tribunal, such "amicus curiae" will be allow, but other
participation will be limited.
David Stewart spoke about the US "manifest disregard of the law" doctrine,
which is essentially a creation of the US judiciary interpretation of the Federal
Arbitration Act, and has been a matter of some controversy in terms of courts ability to
set aside or refuse to enforce domestic awards rendered by arbitrators in "manifest
disregard of the law" ever since its adoption in 1953 by the Supreme Court in Wilko v.
Swan. Nonetheless, this non-statutory doctrine has been applied to domestic awards, but
not to arbitral awards under the New York Convention, and based on recent cases, it
seems to be a trend to narrow and restrict this doctrine, mainly due to the many
frivolous arbitration appeals that rely without justification on the "manifest disregard of
the law" doctrine.
2. Developments in Canada.
Frédéric Bachand reported that there can be found in a number of recent
Canadian cases, issues that may be considered as troubling statements. Most of the time
they are dicta that can be found in Canadian courts decisions, dealing with motions
seeking to annul international awards made in Canada. All these statements suggest that
defenses such as "manifest disregard of the law", "manifest disregard of the facts" even,
"manifest injustice" or "unreasonableness" could arguably be available to parties who
6
launch proceedings in Canada. Those are decisions interpreting the Model Law or
interpreting the New York Convention.
Another issue reported was the binding of the clause of arbitration in the context
of the class action. The core of this issue is the opposition between the class action and
the autonomy of the parties. Courts in Canada have issued opposite criteria. In one
hand, some courts have upheld the prevalence of the parties' autonomy over the class
action; meanwhile others have considered that the class action is a public policy
prevailing over the arbitration clause that is under the parties' autonomy.
Professor Bachand referred to the Dell Computers Company v. Union des
consommateurs, et al. case before the Supreme Court of Canada (hearing will take place
in October, 2006). The Supreme Court decision will rule about the validity of the
arbitration clause on contracts celebrated trough the internet and regarding the
arbitrability of consumer disputes.
Finally, William Horton focused on the following courts decisions related to
arbitration:
a) According to a decision from an Ontario's court, in consumer cases the
arbitration clause is not enforceable unless the consumers agree otherwise after
the dispute has arisen.
b) Relating to the "competence-competence" principle, a Canadian appeal court
ruled that the courts, but not only the arbitral tribunals, may decide whether the
assignee, with respect to an agreement which foresees an arbitration clause, is
bound to it.
c) In a case before a Court of Appeal in Canada related to the compulsory of an
arbitral agreement for third parties, the parties in the arbitration agreement
agreed to be bound by the Alberta Rules of Court. These rules provide that
parties may request for discovery of non parties. One of the parties on the
arbitration requested to the competent court (in accordance to Article 27 of the
International Arbitrations Model Law) its assistance in taking evidence, but the
Court ruled that it was not permissible to compel non parties under an arbitral
procedure. But the Appeals Court ruled that the examination for discovery
oppositions was a valid and perfectly permissible kind of evidence in arbitral
procedures, due to the fact that from the point of view of a non party, being
required for examination in a jurisdictional process represents the same burden
than in an arbitral procedure.

</file>

<file= AmE06_H23>

SALES AND USE TAXES
CURRENT LAW
Sales, Use, and Gross Receipts Tax
Imposition and Rates
Sales Tax. North Dakota imposes a sales tax on the gross
receipts of retail ers. The tax is paid by the purchaser and
collected by the retailer.
The sales tax is levied as follows:
• 2% rate on the gross receipts from retail sales of natural
gas.
• 3% rate on the gross receipts from retail sales of new
mobile homes.
• 3% sales tax surcharge on each motor vehicle rental
contract for a period of fewer than thirty (30) days,
provided the gross vehicle weight of the motor vehicle
is ten thousand pounds or less.
• 5% general rate on the gross receipts from retail sales
of tangible personal property, communication services,
maga zines and other periodicals sold over the counter,
cigarettes and tobacco products, and admission tickets
for recreation activities; from the rental of hotel, motel,
and bed and breakfast accommodations for periods
of less than 30 consecutive days; from the leasing of
tangible personal property; and from the rental of motor
vehicles for periods less than 30 days.
Use Tax. The purchase price of tangible personal
property purchased outside of the state for storage, use
or consumption within the state is subject to a use tax.
In addition, tangible personal property not originally
purchased for use in North Dakota is subject to a use tax
based upon its fair market value at the time it was brought
into the state. Credits are allowed for sales and use taxes
paid to other states.
The use tax is collected by any retailer who maintains
in this state, directly or indirectly, an offi ce, distribution
house, sales house, warehouse, or other place of business
or has a sales representative operating in this state either
permanently or temporarily.
Use tax is paid by contractors installing materials in real
property, including real property owned by government and tax-exempt entities. North Dakota use tax is also
paid by contrac tors buying materials in North Dakota and
installing them in other states, except Montana.
Use tax rates are the same as the sales tax rates listed.
Local Sales and Use Taxes. Cities or counties that have
adopted home rule charters may levy sales and use taxes.
North Dakota home rule statutes require the North Dakota
Offi ce of State Tax Commissioner to administer the local
taxes. The state pays the revenue collected to the local
governments on a monthly basis. Cities and counties with
a local tax during the 2003-2005 biennium are listed on
page 39.
Farm Machinery Gross Receipts Tax. North Dakota
imposes a 3% gross receipts tax on retail sales of new farm
machinery and new irrigation equipment used exclusively
for agricultural purposes. A person that receives new farm
machinery or new irrigation equipment for storage use, or
consumption in North Dakota is also subject to the gross
receipts tax. Credits are allowed for similar taxes paid
to other states. Used farm machinery and used irrigation
equipment used exclusively for agricultural purposes are
exempt from sales, use and gross receipts taxes. Farm
machinery is not subject to sales tax.
Alcoholic Beverage Gross Receipts Tax. North Dakota
imposes a 7% gross receipts tax on retail sales of alcoholic
beverages sold for consumption either on or off the
premises. A person that receives alcoholic beverages
for storage use, or consumption in North Dakota is also
subject to the gross receipts tax. Credits are allowed for
similar taxes paid to other states. Alcholic beverages are
not subject to sales tax.
Lodging Gross Receipts Tax. North Dakota imposes a
1% gross receipts tax through June 30, 2007, on the rental
of hotel and motel accommodations for periods of less
than 30 consecutive days. The gross receipts tax is in
addition to the state sales tax and does not apply to bed and
breakfast accommodations.
Exemptions
Receipts from the sale of tangible personal property for
the purpose of "resale" or "processing" by the purchaser are not subject to the sales, use, or gross receipts tax. In
addition, receipts from the sale of the following items are
exempt from sales, use, and gross receipts tax:
• Food and food ingredients for human consumption
except for prepared food for immediate consumption,
candy, and soft drinks.
• Food used as samples in grocery stores.
• Commercial fertilizers, fungicides, herbicides,
adjuvants, feeds, and seeds used for agricultural
purposes.
• Agricultural by-products used to pro duce steam or
electricity.
• Interstate communications (telephone calls, etc.).
• Hotel or motel rooms rented by or for same individual
for 30 or more consecu tive days.
• Machinery and equipment that a new or expanding
plant uses primarily for manufacturing, processing or
recycling (the company must get pre-approval or pay
the tax and apply for a refund).
• Materials used to construct an agricultural processing
plant (the company must get pre-approval or pay the tax
and apply for a refund).
• Computer and telecommunications equipment that is
an integral part of a new or expanding primary sector
business other than a manufacturer or recycler (the
company must be certifi ed as a primary sector business
by the Department of Commerce and get pre-approval
for the exemption or pay the tax and apply for a refund).
• Production equipment in a large coal-burning
power plant and tangible personal property used in
construction of the plant.
• Production equipment in a wind-powered electrical
generating facility constructed before January 1, 2011
and with a nameplate capacity of at least one hundred
kilowatts and other tangible personal property used in
construction of the facility (the plant operator must get
pre-approval or pay the tax and apply for a refund).
• Used mobile homes.
• Used farm machinery, used irrigation equipment, and
new and used farm machinery repair parts.
• Newspapers.
• Newsprint and printer's ink sold to publishers.
• Magazine subscriptions.
• Electricity.
• Water.
• Steam used to process agricultural products.
• Flight simulators or mechanical equip ment used with a
fl ight simulator.
• Money.
• Lottery tickets.
• Admissions to, or sales made at, an annual church
supper or bazaar held in a publicly-owned building.
• Admission tickets to state or local fairs.
• Performances of community non-profi t music or
dramatic arts organi za tions (if proceeds used for
charitable purposes).
• Film rentals if admissions to view the fi lm are subject to
sales tax.
• Prescription drugs.
• Artifi cial medical devices.
• Mobility-enhancing equipment for use by physically
disabled persons.
• Oxygen and anesthesia gases for medical purposes.
• Diabetic and bladder dysfunction sup plies.
• Ostomy devices and supplies.
• Items sold to federal chartered credit unions.
• Items subject to other taxes such as coal (if not used
for heating), benefi ciated coal, aircraft, motor vehicles,
gasoline, and combustible fuels.
• Items sold to private non-profi t schools.
• Bibles, hymnals, textbooks, prayerbooks sold to
nonprofi t religious organi zations.
• Items sold to governmental agencies, including public
schools.
• Items sold to residents of Montana if the total sales
price exceeds $50.
• Items sold to residents of Canada if purchase is over
$25 (must apply for a refund of tax paid).
• Items sold to a Commerce Authority for use in the
Authority's infrastructure.
• Items sold on an Indian reservation to an enrolled
Native American or to the tribal government.
• Goods sold to a hospital or skilled nursing, basic care
or intermediate care facility, assisted living facility, or
emergency medical service provider.
• Items sold at an auction unless the auctioneer is selling
retail inventory or consigned goods owned by an
undisclosed principal.
• Items sold to a charitable organization to be awarded
as a prize in a raffl e if the winner is subject to tax upon
receipt.
• CO2 used for enhanced oil recovery.
• Equipment used to sell biodiesel fuel.
• Hydrogen used to power internal combustion engines or
fuel cells.
• Equipment used to produce and store hydrogen.
• Precious metal bullion with purity not less than .999.
Administration
Every business making taxable retail sales and every
business accruing a use tax liability must obtain a North
Dakota sales and use tax permit from the North Dakota
Offi ce of State Tax Commissioner. A consolidated form is available to register for a sales and use tax permit, income
tax withholding, unemployment insurance and workers
compensation.
Most businesses pay sales, use, and gross receipts taxes
on a quarterly basis. However, businesses reporting
taxable sales and purchases of $333,000 or more during
the previous calendar year must fi le monthly returns.
Businesses required to fi le and pay monthly returns are
allowed to deduct and retain a compensation allowance of
1½% of the tax due, up to a maximum of $85 per month if
the returns are fi led on time.
Whether the tax is paid monthly or quarterly, the tax
payment and a return reporting all sales and purchases
are due the last day of the month following the end of the
reporting period. In odd-numbered years, monthly returns
for May are due June 22.
Distribution of Revenue
Revenue collected from the sales, use, farm machinery
gross receipts, alcoholic beverage gross receipts, and
motor vehicle excise taxes is divided between the State
General Fund and the State Aid Distribution Fund. The
formula to determine the State Aid Distribution Fund
portion is designed to keep the amount constant regardless
of tax rate changes. The formula is:
40% (1% ÷ by general sales tax rate) (net collections)
This formula to determine the State Aid Distribution Fund
currently yields 8% of the net collections. The distribution
of the State Aid Distribution Fund portion is 53.7% to
revenue sharing for counties and 46.3% for cities.
Motor Vehicle Excise Tax
Imposition and Rates
The purchase price of any motor vehicle purchased or
acquired, either within or outside of North Dakota, for use
on the streets or highways of this state is subject to a motor
vehicle excise tax if the vehicle is required to be registered
in North Dakota.
The motor vehicle excise tax is 5% of the purchase price
(the sale price less any trade-in amount). If the vehicle is
acquired by means other than purchase, the tax is 5% of
the fair market value. When a motor vehicle weighing less
than ten thousand pounds is leased for at least one year, the motor vehicle excise tax is 5% of the lease consideration.
All other leased vehicles are taxed at 5% of the purchase
price. North Dakota allows credit for any excise tax paid
on a motor vehicle in another state if that state allows a
reciprocal credit.
The motor vehicle excise tax is in addition to motor
vehicle registration fees for license plates. The registration
fees are paid annually to the Department of Transportation.
Exemptions
A motor vehicle is exempt from the motor vehicle excise
tax if the vehicle is:
• A gift between a husband and wife, parent and child or
brother and sister.
• Inherited.
• A motor carrier vehicle.
• Purchased for resale by a licensed dealer.
• Purchased by a disabled veteran.
• Purchased or leased by the State of North Dakota or a
political subdivision of the state.
• A bus purchased by a nonprofi t senior citizens' or
handicapped persons' organization.
• Specially equipped for a disabled per son.
• Owned by an individual and transferred to a partnership
or corporation.
• Transferred from a partnership to one of the partners
when the partnership dissolves.
• Acquired by a private nonprofi t school for the
transportation of students.
• Purchased by a charitable organization to be awarded as
a prize in a raffl e and the vehicle will be subject to tax
when requested.
• Transferred between joint tenants in whose names the
vehicle was previously titled if the vehicle is transferred
without monetary considerations.
• Owned by a person who has a change of name due to
marriage, adoption, or court order.

</file>

<file= AmE06_H24>

Did you live in Alaska, Arizona, Arkansas (Texarkana only), California (Los Angeles County only), Colorado, Georgia, Illinois, Louisiana, New York State, or North Carolina in 2006?
No. Enter -0
Yes. Enter your local general sales taxes from the applicable table on page 7 (see page 3 of the instructions)
Did you enter -0- on line 2 above? 
 No. Skip lines 4 and 5 and go to line 6 
 Yes. Enter your state general sales tax rate (shown in the table heading for your state), but omit the percentage sign. For example, if your state general sales tax rate is 6%, enter 6.0 
Divide line 3 by line 4. Enter the result as a decimal (rounded to at least three places) 
Did you enter -0- on line 2 above? 
 No. Multiply line 2 by line 3  
 Yes. Multiply line 1 by line 5. If you lived in more than one locality in the same state during 2006, see page 4 of the instructions  
Enter your state and local general sales taxes paid on specified items, if any (see page 4 of the instructions) 
Deduction for general sales taxes. Add lines 1, 6, and 7. Enter the result here and the total from all your state and local general sales tax deduction worksheets, if you completed more than one, on Schedule A, line 5. Be sure to enter "ST" on the dotted line to the left of the entry space
Instructions for the State and Local General Sales Tax Deduction Worksheet 
Line 1.    If you lived in the same state for all of 2006, enter the applicable amount, based on your 2006 income and exemptions, from the optional state sales tax table for your state on page 5 or 6. Read down the "At least-But less than" columns for your state and find the line that includes your 2006 income. If married filing separately, do not include your spouse's income. Your 2006 income is the amount shown on your Form 1040, line 38, plus any nontaxable items, such as the following. 
•Tax-exempt interest.
•Veterans' benefits.
•Nontaxable combat pay.
•Workers' compensation.
•Nontaxable part of social security and railroad retirement benefits.
•Nontaxable part of IRA, pension, or annuity distributions. Do not include rollovers.
•Public assistance payments.
The exemptions column refers to the number of exemptions claimed on Form 1040, line 6d. Do not include any additional exemptions you listed on Form 8914 for individuals displaced by Hurricane Katrina. 

What if you lived in more than one state?    If you lived in more than one state during 2006, look up the table amount for each state using the above rules. If there is no table for your state, the table amount is considered to be zero. Multiply the table amount for each state you lived in by a fraction. The numerator of the fraction is the number of days you lived in the state during 2006 and the denominator is the total number of days in the year (365). Enter the total of the prorated table amounts for each state on line 1. However, if you also lived in a locality during 2006 that imposed a local general sales tax, do not enter the total on line 1. Instead, complete a separate worksheet for each state you lived in and enter the prorated amount for that state on line 1. 
Example.
You lived in State A from January 1 through August 31, 2006 (243 days), and in State B from September 1 through December 31, 2006 (122 days). The table amount for State A is $500. The table amount for State B is $400. You would figure your state general sales tax as follows. 
State A: $500 x 243/365 = $333  
State B: $400 x 122/365 = 134  
Total = $467  
If none of the localities in which you lived during 2006 imposed a local general sales tax, enter $467 on line 1 of your worksheet. Otherwise, complete a separate worksheet for State A and State B. Enter $333 on line 1 of the State A worksheet and $134 on line 1 of the State B worksheet. 
Line 2.   If you checked the "No" box, enter -0- on line 2, and go to line 3. If you checked the "Yes" box and lived in the same locality for all of 2006, enter the applicable amount, based on your 2006 income and exemptions, from the optional local sales tax table for your locality on page 7. Read down the "At least-But less than" columns for your locality and find the line that includes your 2006 income. See the line 1 instructions on this page to figure your 2006 income. The exemptions column refers to the number of exemptions claimed on Form 1040, line 6d. Do not include any additional exemptions you listed on Form 8914 for individuals displaced by Hurricane Katrina. 
What if you lived in more than one locality?   If you lived in more than one locality during 2006, look up the table amount for each locality using the above rules. If there is no table for your locality, the table amount is considered to be zero. Multiply the table amount for each locality you lived in by a fraction. The numerator of the fraction is the number of days you lived in the locality during 2006 and the denominator is the total number of days in the year (365). If you lived in more than one locality in the same state and the local general sales tax rate was the same for each locality, enter the total of the prorated table amounts for each locality in that state on line 2. Otherwise, complete a separate worksheet for lines 2 through 6 for each locality and enter each prorated table amount on line 2 of the applicable worksheet. 
Example.
You lived in Locality 1 from January 1 through August 31, 2006 (243 days), and in Locality 2 from September 1 through December 31, 2006 (122 days). The table amount for Locality 1 is $100. The table amount for Locality 2 is $150. You would figure the amount to enter on line 2 as follows. Note that this amount may not equal your local sales tax deduction, which is figured on line 6 of the worksheet. 
Locality 1: $100 x 243/365 = $67  
Locality 2: $150 x 122/365 = 50  
Total = $117  
Line 3.   If you lived in California, check the "No" box if your combined state and local general sales tax rate is 7.25%. Otherwise, check the "Yes" box and include on line 3 only the part of the combined rate that is more than 7.25%. 
  If you lived in Nevada, check the "No" box if your combined state and local general sales tax rate is 6.5%. Otherwise, check the "Yes" box and include on line 3 only the part of the combined rate that is more than 6.5%. 
  If you lived in Texarkana, Arkansas, check the "Yes" box and enter "4.0" on line 3. Your local general sales tax rate of 4.0% includes the additional 1.0% Arkansas state sales tax rate for Texarkana and the 1.5% sales tax rate for Miller County. 
What if your local general sales tax rate changed during 2006?    If you checked the "Yes" box and your local general sales tax rate changed during 2006, figure the rate to enter on line 3 as follows. Multiply each tax rate for the period it was in effect by a fraction. The numerator of the fraction is the number of days the rate was in effect during 2006 and the denominator is the total number of days in the year (365). Enter the total of the prorated tax rates on line 3. 
Example.
Locality 1 imposed a 1% local general sales tax from January 1 through September 30, 2006 (273 days). The rate increased to 1.75% for the period from October 1 through December 31, 2006 (92 days). You would enter "1.189" on line 3, figured as follows. 
January 1 - September 30: 1.00 x 273/365 = 0.748  
October 1 - December 31: 1.75 x 92/365 = 0.441  
Total = 1.189  
What if you lived in more than one locality in the same state during 2006?    Complete a separate worksheet for lines 2 through 6 for each locality in your state if you lived in more than one locality in the same state during 2006 and either of the following applies. 
•Each locality did not have the same local general sales tax rate.
•You lived in Texarkana, AR, or Los Angeles County, CA.
  To figure the amount to enter on line 3 of the worksheet for each locality in which you lived (except a locality for which you used the table on page 7 to figure your local general sales tax deduction), multiply the local general sales tax rate by a fraction. The numerator of the fraction is the number of days you lived in the locality during 2006 and the denominator is the total number of days in the year (365). 
Example.
You lived in Locality 1 from January 1 through August 31, 2006 (243 days), and in Locality 2 from September 1 through December 31, 2006 (122 days). The local general sales tax rate for Locality 1 is 1%. The rate for Locality 2 is 1.75%. You would enter "0.666" on line 3 for the Locality 1 worksheet and "0.585" for the Locality 2 worksheet, figured as follows. 
Locality 1: 1.00 x 243/365 = 0.666  
Locality 2: 1.75 x 122/365 = 0.585  
Line 6.   If you lived in more than one locality in the same state during 2006, you should have completed line 1 only on the first worksheet for that state and separate worksheets for lines 2 through 6 for any other locality within that state in which you lived during 2006. If you checked the "Yes" box on line 6 of any of those worksheets, multiply line 5 of that worksheet by the amount that you entered on line 1 for that state on the first worksheet. 
Line 7.    Enter on line 7 any state and local general sales taxes paid on the following specified items. If you are completing more than one worksheet, include the total for line 7 on only one of the worksheets. 
1.A motor vehicle (including a car, motorcycle, motor home, recreational vehicle, sport utility vehicle, truck, van, and off-road vehicle). Also include any state and local general sales taxes paid for a leased motor vehicle. If the state sales tax rate on these items is higher than the general sales tax rate, only include the amount of tax you would have paid at the general sales tax rate. 
2.An aircraft or boat, if the tax rate was the same as the general sales tax rate.
3.A home (including a mobile home or prefabricated home) or substantial addition to or major renovation of a home, but only if the tax rate was the same as the general sales tax rate and any of the following applies. 
a.Your state or locality imposes a general sales tax directly on the sale of a home or on the cost of a substantial addition or major renovation. 
b.You purchased the materials to build a home or substantial addition or to perform a major renovation and paid the sales tax directly. 
c.Under your state law, your contractor is considered your agent in the construction of the home or substantial addition or the performance of a major renovation. The contract must state that the contractor is authorized to act in your name and must follow your directions on construction decisions. In this case, you will be considered to have purchased any items subject to a sales tax and to have paid the sales tax directly. 
  Do not include sales taxes paid on items used in your trade or business. If you received a refund of state or local general sales taxes in 2006, see Refund of general sales taxes on page 1.

</file>

<file= AmE06_H25>

Bringing people together to build common vision,
networks of action and movements for change
1954
JUSTICE IN SOUTH AFRICA
In an effort to promote understanding between the United
States and South Africa, grants support exchange programs in
education, business and journalism. In the 1980's, under the
leadership of former President Franklin Thomas, foundation
grants help create a network of international and South African
legal experts who challenge the legal basis for apartheid and
are central participants in helping shape the new constitution.
Dedicated to supporting education, the arts and community
development, the foundation opens an office in Johannesburg
in 1993 to help the people of the country build a peaceful and
prosperous nonracial democracy.

1968
FIGHTING DISCRIMINATION
To create a broad civil rights network, the foundation
supports the founding of new civil rights groups over the
next two years, including the Mexican American Legal
Defense and Educational Fund, the National Council of
La Raza, the Native American Rights Fund, the Puerto
Rican Legal Defense and Education Fund, the National
Committee Against Discrimination in Housing and the
Legal Action Center. Ford also funds the Voter Education
Project to support minority voters' rights and increase
voter registration in the South. In 1992, Ford helps create
the Asian American Justice Center.

1976
A MOVEMENT
FOR WOMEN
Reflecting some 20 years of foundation
support for global women's empowerment
and health, Ford provides assistance to the
National Organization for Women's Legal
Defense and Education Fund to promote
gender equality and prohibit gender-based
discrimination. In addition, Ford supports
the International Women's Health Coalition's
efforts to ensure that women gain access to
reproductive health care services worldwide.

1985
a movement in
latin america
Building on a long history of support in the
region, the foundation forms partnerships
with local grantees to support human
rights in Chile, Argentina and Peru.
This includes expanding funds for research
centers, universities and bar associations;
addressing human rights violations and
building sound judicial procedures; and
promoting positive relationships between
government and civil society.
1998
STRENGTHENING
CULTURES
Ford helps launch the Honoring Nations
program to help build a network of
individuals and organizations committed
to excellence in Native American selfgovernance.
Administered by the Kennedy
School of Government at Harvard, the
national program demonstrates how good
governance is built upon the unique culture
of each tribe. More than 78 tribal government
initiatives have received awards for improved
approaches to education, health care,
economic development and environmental
protection.
1999
supporting
RIGHTS
The foundation begins its support of
the National Gay and Lesbian Task Force
through a grant for groundbreaking
research on issues of social and economic
discrimination affecting the gay and
lesbian community. Dedicated to
eliminating prejudice, violence and
injustice against gay and lesbian people
at the local and national levels, the
foundation also supports the work of the
Lambda Legal Defense and Education
Foundation and the ACLU.

2000
NURTURING
CIVIL SOCIETIES
Ford establishes a program on
global civil society, focused on
strengthening civic engagement
to make global institutions more
accountable and solve problems
that transcend national borders.

2006
A NEW AFRICAN
FOUNDATION
Akwasi Aidoo (at right), executive
director of TrustAfrica, a new African-led
institution launched by Ford to build on
the promise of political and economic
reforms across Africa. Based in Dakar,
Senegal, TrustAfrica works with African
institutions to develop lasting solutions to
the continent's most pressing challenges.

Building New Organizations
Supporting people who create new kinds of organizations
is a lasting tradition of the Ford Foundation.
In 2006, Ford launched TrustAfrica, a new philanthropy based
in Africa and run by Africans. Incubated by the foundation over five
years, TrustAfrica has already convened innovative African leaders who
are addressing the violence, discrimination and economic isolation
that impact many nations on the continent. TrustAfrica offers a forum
and funding for collaborative, locally grown solutions that build on
new democratic governance practices, growing civil society capacities
and greater freedom. Also in 2006, the foundation supported the
establishment of the Brazil Human Rights Fund, which makes grants to
strengthen promising grassroots initiatives and training and exchange
programs for Brazilian human rights activists.

Helping innovators realize their goals
with new organizational forms

1958
LINCOLN CENTER
The foundation commits $25 million to build and operate
Lincoln Center. The landmark performing arts institution was
one of the first in the United States to bring together venues
for all of the major performing arts and is now home to 12
independent and autonomous resident companies. In 2006,
the foundation commits $15 million to help kick off the first
major renovation of Lincoln Center to make it more inviting and
accessible to visitors, artists and students.

1970
NEIGHBORHOOD SAFETY
Support goes to organizations that research, monitor and
improve law enforcement and the administration of justice.
Recipients include the Police Foundation, created in 1970
with a five-year, $30 million commitment, which funds efforts
to improve police patrol, investigation and crime prevention,
as well as the Vera Institute of Justice, independently
established in 1961, which supports court reform and the
prevention of juvenile crime.

1976
EARLY MICROFINANCE
The foundation's Bangladesh office makes
a grant to the University of Chittagong's
Economics Department and Muhammad
Yunus to help launch a project to show that
landless people, primarily women, can use
credit and repay loans. This microfinance
demonstration evolves into the Grameen
Bank, which by 2005 has outstanding loans
of more than $300 million and cumulative
disbursements of more than $4 billion.
Yunus and the Grameen Bank are awarded
the 2006 Nobel Peace Prize. Support is also
given to the Bangladesh Rural Advancement
Committee, which organizes village
cooperatives and trains health, nutrition and
family-planning workers.

1979
COMMUNITY
REVITALIZATION
Ford helps establish the Local
Initiatives Support Corporation,
a national organization dedicated to
revitalizing low-income, distressed
communities. Other urban and
rural revitalization work involves
the Enterprise Foundation and local
development funds and banks that
help develop leadership, business and
housing in low-income areas.

1982
WELFARE
AND WORK
The Manpower Demonstration
Research Corporation, created
by the Ford Foundation, and
Public/Private Ventures, another
Ford-funded organization, address
the connections between welfare
and work and the link between
employment and youth development.

1985
ARTISTIC
OPPORTUNITIES
The Sundance Institute for Film and
Television is awarded a grant to establish
a laboratory in which choreographers and
filmmakers can create new dance work
specifically for film and television.

2001
HEALING THE
WOUNDS OF WAR
With major foundation support, the
International Center for Transitional
Justice is created to secure sustainable
peace and justice in countries emerging
from years of conflict.

Creating Opportunity
and Improving Lives

Almost 40 years ago, the Ford Foundation helped develop
a new philanthropic tool by pioneering the use of low-cost
loans and loan guarantees for charitable purposes. Called
program-related investments, they act as "risk capital" for innovative,
income-generating ideas that need patient development and testing.
The foundation now uses a full range of tools, from grants to recoverable
grants and loan guarantees to loans and equity investments - all
designed to support innovation, create opportunity and improve lives.
In 2006 we backed innovative financing tools to give low-income
families renting space in manufactured home parks a stake in the land
on which their manufactured homes sit. Our grantees are helping
these communities create land trusts so they do not lose their
homes when parks are sold. We continue to support a national policy
experiment in helping low-income families build assets for the future
through children's saving accounts. Seeded at birth by nonprofits
and government and built up over time by contributions from families
themselves, these accounts can eventually help pay for college tuition or
down payments on homes. And working with low-wage workers, the
foundation helps employers expand access to government programs that
provide workers with savings instruments, insurance and tax benefits - 
all of which encourage long-term financial security and stability.

2006
community
forestry
A Ford-supported initiative in Mexico
enables rural communities to play a more
direct role in managing forest lands in
cooperation with forestry agencies. These
efforts, supported by the foundation in
the United States and around the world,
create economic opportunities for lowincome
rural households.

Supporting new ideas with
mainstream potential

1967
RENEWING
COMMUNITIES
A grant to New York's Bedford-Stuyvesant
Restoration Corporation to revitalize the
disadvantaged Brooklyn neighborhood
signals the beginning of the foundation's
work in a new kind of community initiative:
Community Development Corporations
(CDCs). Formed by residents, small business
owners, congregations and other local
stakeholders, CDCs produce affordable
housing, job training and social services.
As of 2006, an estimated 4,600 CDCs are
operating in the United States.
1992
rural
development
The foundation supports innovative
forestry initiatives that enlist rural
communities and forestry agencies in
projects to improve management of forest
lands while creating economic opportunities
for poor rural households. Over the
years, this includes grants in India for
joint forest management; China for efforts
to protect biodiversity while improving
livelihoods; and Indonesia, Mexico and
Brazil to assist indigenous communities in
obtaining land and forest rights.

1996
TOWARD ECONOMIC SECURITY
The foundation initiates the American Dream Demonstration
to determine whether Individual Development Accounts - 
matched savings accounts - can help low-income people save
and achieve economic stability. Six years later, Ford initiates the
Savings for Education, Entrepreneurship and Down Payment
project in sites across the nation to assess whether children's
savings accounts can help young people save for college, buy a
first home, even build up a nest egg for retirement.

1998
AFFORDABLE MORTGAGES
The foundation collaborates with the Center for
Community Self-Help and Fannie Mae to develop
the Self-Help Initiative, which makes available
$2 billion in affordable mortgages for 35,000
minority and low-income home buyers nationwide.
The $50 million grant marks one of the largest
commitments to homeownership by a philanthropic
institution.

2005
A REGION IN NEED
In partnership with the W.K. Kellogg Foundation, Ford
commits $7 million to support a public/private initiative to
spur economic development in formerly industrial stretches
of Detroit's waterfront. Support for cultural institutions
and community development in struggling neighborhoods
is designed to help Detroit revitalize its economy.

the grant-making process
Once the foundation's board approves work on a key issue or in a particular geographic
area, a program officer will explore in detail how foundation grants can
have the greatest impact. The officer begins this process by consulting broadly
with potential beneficiaries, practitioners, researchers, policy makers and others
to identify ideas, institutions or projects worthy of support. During this
process, the program officer looks for innovative approaches in the work that
grantees might undertake, benchmarks to measure results and expected costs.
When the program officer has completed this process, he or she presents
a proposed program of grant making in a memorandum reviewed by peers,
a supervisor and at least two senior foundation officers. Once the proposed
program is approved, the officer begins the process of soliciting and reviewing
proposals and making specific grants, usually with a two-year budget.
Program staff regularly report to the board on how grantees are
performing. Because of the foundation's long-term focus, the foundation
frequently renews grants to organizations that
demonstrate they are making progress toward
their objectives.
In reviewing proposals, grant-making staff
look for fresh thinking and innovative people and
organizations that will be effective in fulfilling the
foundation's mission. Ford supports pluralism and equal opportunity, both
in its operations and in its grant making. In evaluating proposals, we look
for prospective grantees that provide opportunities for women and underrepresented
groups.
Applicants typically learn within six weeks whether their proposals fall
within the foundation's program interests and are being seriously considered
for funding. If a proposal is being considered for a grant, Ford may conduct site
visits and grant negotiations as well as administrative and legal reviews. This
process usually takes three months, unless there are special circumstances.
Activities supported by grants must be charitable, educational or scientific,
as defined under the appropriate provisions of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code
and Treasury Regulations.
Ford makes grants to individuals, generally limited to research, training
and travel directly related to our program interests. These grants are awarded
through publicly announced competitions or on the basis of nominations
from universities and other nonprofit institutions.

</file>

<file= AmE06_H26>

Nickolas Davatzes 
When Nickolas Davatzes launched the History Channel in 1995, he assumed it would be a niche channel with modest distribution. Today, the History Channel has nearly 150 million viewers worldwide, through programming in more than 130 countries. 
"People often think of history the way they learned it in high school or college: as memorizing dates," says Davatzes, founder of A&E Television Network and the History Channel. "One of the wonderful things about television is that it makes things come alive." 
Born in New York City, Davatzes received a bachelor's degree in economics and a master's degree in social psychology from St. John's University, where he now sits on the board of trustees. His interest in history was inspired by his father, who served in the Greek army in the 1920s before immigrating to America and fighting for the United States during World War II. "He saw a lot about the world," Davatzes says. "And, of course, growing up in a Greek immigrant family, I heard a lot about the glories of ancient Greece." 
Davatzes serves as cochairman of the Board of Directors of Cable in the Classroom, an initia-tive in which networks and cable providers supply commercial-free educational programming to 250,000 teachers in public schools across the country. "Teachers are looking for tools that pique the interest of their students," Davatzes explains. 
One of the projects of which Davatzes is most proud is The Crusades: Crescent and the Cross, a 2005 History Channel documentary chronicling the two-hundred-year struggle between Christians and Muslims for control of the Holy Land. "It speaks to the Mideast conflict and how long it has existed. I think sometimes we in the Western world don't understand the driver on the other side very well."
Robert Fagles 
"Every translation is different," says classicist Robert Fagles. "It has to do with the tone of voice of the translator. Each has a distinctive badge, each comes with its own vocal DNA," he says. 
Fagles's translations are known for their emphasis on contemporary English phrasing while being faithful to the original. His translations of The Iliad and The Odyssey were both best sell-ers. Now, he has tackled the Roman epic, Virgil's Aeneid. As a comparative literature professor at Princeton University for more than forty years, Fagles was always involved with the classics. "Translation is an ongoing field of endeavor throughout all of English letters. Finally, there came a time when I wanted to try my hand at it myself." 
Fagles translated The Iliad in 1990 and The Odyssey in 1996. Fagles believes The Odyssey still offers lessons to today's reader. "I think we learn fortitude is an important virtue. We learn from Homer that adventure and being alive to experience are very important virtues," says Fagles.
Fagles won the Harold Morton Landon Translation Award of the Academy of American Poets in 1991 for his translation of The Iliad and in 1996 received an Academy Award in Literature for his translation of The Odyssey. He also received the PEN/Ralph Manheim Medal for lifetime achieve-ment in translation. Fagles has translated Sophocles's Three Theban Plays and Aeschylus's Oresteia. He has published a book of his own poems titled I, Vincent: Poems from the Pictures of Van Gogh.
The HooverInstitution 
As a library and public policy research center, the Hoover Institution supports the study of politics, economics, and international affairs, focusing on the role of individual liberty safeguarded from government intrusion. It was founded by Herbert Hoover after the outbreak of World War I. 
"Hoover was interested in gathering materials during times of war and revolution in order to find a way to promote peace," says John Raisian. "He thought that scholars could work on these documents and look for solutions that could lead to peaceful coexistence." 
Raisian has led the Hoover Institution for the past seventeen years and has seen the number of scholars using its collections grow to seven thousand last year. The collaboration of researchers has led to the creation of journals, research projects, and roles for advising governments. About one thousand opinion pieces are written yearly by Hoover scholars from forty countries, published by newspapers around the world such as the Wall Street Journal, the Washington Post, and the New York Times. 
Among Hoover alumni are Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice, former Secretary of State George Schultz, Nobel Prize-winning economist Milton Friedman, and Newt Gingrich, former speaker of the House of Representatives. 
"If you're looking at the community of think tanks, Hoover is unusual in at least one impor-tant respect, our vast archival collections," says Raisian. Twenty-five miles of shelf space hold decades of materials on war, revolution, and peace. The content of the library's one million volumes - including sixty million documents and one hundred thousand political posters - spans continents and details political and economic history from China to the United States to Russia. 
Mary Lefkowitz 
Mary Lefkowitz says she found her passion for the classics at age sixteen while visiting ancient Roman ruins in Britain, France, and Italy. As a high school student at the Brearley School in Manhattan, Lefkowitz stud-ied Latin and Greek. "It was partly that the language was so interesting but also the idea of understanding your past, and coming into contact with the past of so long ago that was really exciting." 
Lefkowitz has written three books on the role of women in ancient societies: Heroines and Hysterics, Women in Greek Myth, and Women's Life in Greece and Rome, which she coedited with Maureen B. Fant and which is considered the standard sourcebook in the field. 
"Readers get a negative impression of women at first in ancient literature but when you look a bit harder you see they had an important role, behind the scenes and also sometimes upfront," says Lefkowitz. She has also been a leading defender of interpreting the history of ancient civiliza-tions through traditional standards of historical evidence. Her controversial books, Not Out of Africa and Black Athena Revisited, with coeditor Guy MacLean Rogers, examine the factual evidence for an Afrocentric approach to the origin of the ancient world and disputes its plausibility. She argues against the idea that Europeans stole from African culture. 
Lefkowitz is the Andrew W. Mellon Professor in the Humanities, Emeritus at Wellesley College, where she received her degree in 1957 and taught for forty-five years. She received her Ph.D. in classical philology at Radcliffe in 1961. Her most recent book, Greek Gods, Human Lives, looks at the role of the gods in Greek myths.
Bernard Lewis 
Middle Eastern scholar Bernard Lewis says today's conflict between Christendom and Islam is one that goes back more than fourteen centuries. He describes it as a clash between the relativists and the triumphalists. While some religions accept the legitimacy of other faiths (relativists), both Islam and Christianity in their traditionalist forms hold unbending views. 
"The Christian world and a large part of the Islam world no longer hold that kind of trium-phalist view," says Lewis, the Cleveland E. Dodge Professor of Near Eastern Studies Emeritus at Princeton. "But what we are dealing with is the triumphalists of the Muslim world and they are setting the terms of the conflict. That's the difficulty. If only the relativists on both sides could get together I'm sure agreement would be possible." 
Lewis's career in Middle Eastern studies began with a facility for and a fascination with languages at the age of thirteen. "I started out learning the few lines of Hebrew I needed to know for my bar mitzvah, normally that's what's expected," he says. "To everyone's surprise, especially my parents, I wanted to con-tinue with Hebrew after I completed my bar mitzvah work." He went on to study Aramaic and Arabic. 
Hebrew and a love of history drew him to Middle Eastern studies at the University of London. His scholarship earned him a prize from the university and soon he was given another opportunity. The university offered him a stipend of 150 pounds to study in the Middle East. When he returned to London he became an assistant lecturer and pursued his Ph.D. 
World War II erupted and he reported for duty. With his facility for languages, Lewis was quickly transferred from a tank unit to one in intelligence and was sent to the Middle East. After the war he retuned to the University of London and continued teaching Islamic history until 1974. That same year he moved to the United States to teach at Princeton and at the Institute for Advanced Studies. He officially retired in 1986. At age ninety he still keeps an office at Princeton, works on projects, and advises an occasional student. Lewis has written more than thirty books, the most recent being From Babel to Dragomans: Interpreting the Middle East, published in 2004. 
Mark Noll 
"I am a historian who happens to be an evangelical Christian," says Mark Noll, the Francis A. McAney Professor of History at Notre Dame. "The two are important to me but it is possible to distinguish these identities. In my work, I'm not an advocate for Christianity but because I'm an evangelical I am drawn to study religion and the history of religion." 
As a historian, Noll has established himself as a leading scholar on the history of Christianity in the United States. He has authored more than thirty books on the subject, his most recent is The Civil War as a Theological Crisis. 
For Noll, the development of the evangelical Protestant church in the United States is a key component of the nation's history. "If you want to understand the early history of the United States," he says, "you want to understand these churches. 
"From 1790 through the next one hundred years, these churches played a most active role in civil society," says Noll. "By 1860 there were fifty-five-thousand Protestant churches in the United States that more or less followed evangelical traditions, about twenty thousand being Methodists," says Noll. 
Noll received his Ph.D. from Vanderbilt University and taught at Wheaton College for twenty-seven years before moving to Notre Dame last fall. He is the founder of The Institute for the Study of American Evangelicalism and the former president of The American Society of Church History. In 2005, Time magazine named him one of the twenty-five most influential evangelicals in the United States.

Meryle Secrest 
"I don't like to spend a lot of time with people I don't like," biographer Meryle Secrest admits. "I always start with a subject I really love. You've got to be passionately interested - if you're doing it as a chore, it will come through in your writing." 
Born and educated in Bath, England, Secrest moved to Canada after World War II and began a career in journalism that would eventually carry her to the Washington Post. Although she often wrote profiles of public figures, her first biography came to her unexpectedly. During a visit to the then National Gallery of Art in Washington, D.C., Secrest encountered a fascinating self-portrait by the American expatriate artist Romaine Brooks. After writing biographical profiles of her for the Post and the Smithsonian, Secrest was invited to turn her research into a book. 
Since publishing Between Me and Life: A Biography of Romaine Brooks in 1974, Secrest has written biographies of Salvador Dalí, Stephen Sondheim, Leonard Bernstein, Joseph Duveen, and Bernard Berenson. Of the many intriguing characters she's studied, Secrest says her favorite is Frank Lloyd Wright. "He's one of the few authentic geniuses I've ever had the honor to study," she says. 
Until recently, Secrest taught creative nonfiction as a visiting instructor at George Mason University. She says she often emphasized the importance of accuracy to her students. "There's a kind of honor system in biography - there are no fact checkers," she explains. "Some students of mine thought nothing of putting thoughts into someone's head. If you don't know what happened, you don't say it." 
Currently, Secrest is at work on a biography of the Italian painter and sculptor Amedeo Modigliani. In June 2007, she will publish a memoir of her craft called Shoot the Widow: Adventures in Biography.

</file>

<file= AmE06_H27>

Net Sales
 
The increase in net sales was attributable to sales volume increases from the introduction of new products, primarily in the United States, and higher sales for our businesses in Canada and Mexico.  Strong sales of seasonal products and our dark and premium chocolate items also contributed to the sales increase.  These increases were substantially offset by decreased price realization from higher rates of promotional spending and higher returns, discounts and allowances for products at retail.  Softness in sales of single serve items and the shift from limited edition items to new product growth platforms in 2007, compared with the first quarter of 2006, also had a negative impact on sales performance in the quarter.
 
Key Marketplace Metrics
 
Consumer takeaway increased 1.5% during the first quarter of 2007, in line with shipments.  Consumer takeaway is provided for channels of distribution accounting for approximately 80% of our U.S. confectionery retail business. These channels of distribution include food, drug, mass merchandisers, including Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., and convenience stores.
 
Market Share in measured channels declined by 1.2 share points during the first quarter of 2007. The change in market share is provided for measured channels which include sales in the food, drug, convenience store and mass merchandiser classes of trade, excluding sales of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.
 
Cost of Sales and Gross Margin
 
Business realignment charges of $9.9 million were included in cost of sales in the first quarter 2007, compared with a credit of $1.6 million in the prior year.  The remainder of the cost of sales increase was primarily associated with sales volume increases and higher raw material and other input costs.
 
Half of the gross margin decline was attributable to the impact of business realignment initiatives recorded in 2007 compared with 2006.  The rest of the decline reflected higher costs for raw materials, fuel, and packaging, along with lower net price realization.  Favorable product mix and supply chain productivity partially offset the impact of cost increases.

Selling, Marketing and Administrative
 
Selling, marketing and administrative expenses decreased primarily as a result of expense control and lower administrative costs associated with incentive compensation, primarily stock options.  These decreases were offset by expenses of $3.0 million for project implementation related to our business realignment initiatives and higher advertising expenses.
 
Business Realignment Initiatives
 
Business realignment charges of $27.5 million were recorded in the first quarter of 2007 associated with our supply chain transformation program.  The charges were primarily associated with fixed asset impairments and expenses for the closure of certain manufacturing facilities, along with employee separation costs.
 
During the first quarter of 2006, we recorded charges related to previous business realignment initiatives that began in 2005.  The $3.3 million business realignment charge included $1.4 million related to a U.S. voluntary workforce reduction program, $1.3 million for facility rationalization relating to the closure of the Las Piedras plant and $.6 million related to streamlining our international operations.
 
Income Before Interest and Income Taxes and EBIT Margin
 
EBIT decreased in the first quarter 2007 compared with the first quarter 2006 principally as a result of higher net business realignment charges associated with our business realignment initiatives. Net pre-tax business realignment charges of $40.4 million were recorded in the first quarter 2007 compared with $1.7 million recorded in the first quarter 2006, an increase of $38.7 million. The remainder of the decrease in EBIT was attributable to lower gross profit resulting primarily from higher input costs which were only slightly offset by lower selling, marketing and administrative expenses.
 
EBIT margin decreased from 18.6% for the first quarter of 2006 to 14.7% for the first quarter of 2007.  The impact of net business realignment charges reduced EBIT margin by 3.4 percentage points.  The remainder of the decrease resulted from the lower gross margin offset partially by lower SM&A expense as a percentage of sales.
 
Interest Expense, Net
 
Net interest expense was higher in the first quarter 2007 than the comparable period of 2006, primarily reflecting higher interest expense associated with the issuance of $500.0 million of long-term debt in August 2006. Higher interest rates in the first quarter 2007 as compared to the first quarter 2006 also contributed to the increase in interest expense.
 
Income Taxes and Effective Tax Rate
 
Our effective income tax rate was 34.1% for the first quarter of 2007 and benefited by .7 percentage points as a result of the effective tax rates associated with business realignment charges recorded during the quarter.  We expect our effective income tax rate for the full year 2007 to be 36.1%, excluding the impact of tax benefits associated with business realignment charges during the year.
 
Net Income and Net Income Per Share
 
Net Income in the first quarter 2007 was reduced by $25.3 million, or $0.11 per share-diluted, and was reduced by $1.2 million, or $0.01 per share-diluted, in the first quarter of 2006 as a result of net charges associated with our business realignment initiatives. After considering the impact of business realignment charges in each period, earnings per share-diluted in the first quarter 2007 was even with the first quarter of 2006.
 
Liquidity and Capital Resources
 
Historically, our major source of financing has been cash generated from operations. Domestic seasonal working capital needs, which typically peak during the summer months, generally have been met by issuing commercial paper. Commercial paper may also be issued from time to time to finance ongoing business transactions such as the refinancing of obligations associated with certain lease arrangements, the repayment of long-term debt and for other general corporate purposes. During the first quarter of 2007, cash and cash equivalents decreased by $36.7 million.
 
Cash provided from operations, short-term borrowings, cash provided from stock options exercises and cash on hand at the beginning of the period was sufficient to fund the repayment of long-term debt of $188.7 million, the repurchase of Common Stock for $150.0 million, dividend payments of $60.7 million and capital additions and capitalized software expenditures of $41.8 million.
 
Cash used by changes in other assets and liabilities was $32.1 million for the first quarter of 2007 compared with cash used of $46.9 million for the same period of 2006. The decrease in the amount of cash used by other assets and liabilities from 2006 to 2007 primarily reflected the timing of payments for accrued liabilities associated with selling and marketing programs and lower payments relating to incentive compensation and business realignment initiatives.
 
A receivable of approximately $14.0 million was included in prepaid expenses and other current assets as of April 1, 2007 and December 31, 2006 related to the recovery of damages from a product recall and temporary plant closure in Canada.  The product recall during the fourth quarter of 2006 was caused by a contaminated ingredient purchased from an outside supplier.
 
Interest paid was $52.5 million during the first quarter of 2007 versus $39.0 million for the comparable period of 2006.  The increase in interest paid reflects additional borrowings and the higher interest rate environment.  Income taxes paid were $9.8 million during the first quarter of 2007 versus $33.8 million for the comparable period of 2006.  The decrease in taxes paid in 2007 was primarily related to a lower federal extension payment for 2006 income taxes.
 
The ratio of current assets to current liabilities decreased slightly to .9:1 as of April 1, 2007 from 1.0:1 as of December 31, 2006. The capitalization ratio (total short-term and long-term debt as a percent of stockholders' equity, short-term and long-term debt) increased slightly to 76% as of April 1, 2007 from 75% as of December 31, 2006.
 
Generally, our short-term borrowings are in the form of commercial paper or bank loans with an original maturity of three months or less. In December 2006, we entered into a five-year credit agreement establishing an unsecured revolving credit facility to borrow up to $1.1 billion with the option to increase borrowings by an additional $400 million with the consent of the lenders. We may use these funds for general corporate purposes, including commercial paper backstop and business acquisitions.
 
Outlook
 
The outlook section contains a number of forward-looking statements, all of which are based on current expectations.  Actual results may differ materially.  Refer to the Safe Harbor Statement below as well as Risk Factors and other information contained in our 2006 Annual Report on Form 10-K for information concerning the key risks to achieving future performance goals.
 
We have revised our operating performance expectations for the full year 2007 as a result of significant increases in dairy input costs.  On April 20, 2007, the United States Department of Agriculture announced significant changes to the prices of dairy products effective immediately. These price changes, along with unfavorable worldwide supply and demand conditions for dairy products, will result in costs for our dairy raw materials for 2007, which are now anticipated to be considerably higher than our previous expectations.  The dairy markets are not as developed as many of the other commodities markets and, therefore, it is not possible to hedge our costs by taking forward positions to extend coverage for longer periods of time.  Our latest expectations with regard to key operating performance measures are presented below.
 
We continue to expect sales growth in 2007 to be within our long-term goal of 3% to 4%. Marketplace performance has been below this level to date, but we expect it to improve in the second half of the year behind continued increases in consumer and customer investment.
 
We expect that our 2007 business realignment initiatives designed to execute a comprehensive, three-year supply chain transformation plan will result in total pre-tax charges and non-recurring project implementation costs of $525 million to $575 million.  Total charges include project management and start-up costs of approximately $50 million.  In 2007, we expect to record charges of approximately $270 million to $300 million, or $.75 to $.84 per share-diluted.  As a result of the program, we estimate that our gross margin should improve significantly, with on-going savings of approximately $170 million to $190 million generated by 2010.  A portion of the savings will be invested in our strategic growth initiatives, in such areas as core brand growth, new product innovation, selling and go-to-market capabilities and disciplined global expansion.  The amount and timing of this investment will be contingent upon market conditions and the pace of our innovation and global expansion.
 
We have identified a number of initiatives which will help to offset a portion of anticipated increases in input costs and have implemented certain price increases.  However, the magnitude of the higher dairy input costs and maintaining our planned increases in brand investment are expected to result in reduced earnings compared with our previous expectations.
 
Excluding the impact of business realignment charges, we now expect our gross margin to be essentially flat for the full year 2007.  We expect significantly higher input costs in 2007 compared with 2006, particularly as a result of the recent increase in expected dairy input costs.  Productivity improvements, cost control initiatives and improving price realization are expected to partially offset these cost increases.

Excluding the impact of business realignment charges, we now expect EBIT margin to decline somewhat for the full year 2007.  This decline will result from the decision to maintain our increased levels of brand investment, despite the recent increase in expected dairy input costs.
 
Excluding the impact of business realignment charges, earnings per share-diluted is now expected to increase within a range of 4% to 6% for the full year 2007.
 
 The sudden and large increase in dairy costs will have a disproportionate impact on earnings in the second quarter of 2007.  This results from our interim accounting methodology in which expected annual costs for major raw materials are recorded ratably on a year-to-date basis. Therefore, dairy costs recorded in the second quarter will reflect approximately half of the expected full year impact of the recent increases in dairy input costs.  This factor, combined with expected sales performance, is expected to result in earnings per share-diluted for the second quarter of 2007 of $.34 to $.35, excluding the impact of business realignment charges.

</file>

<file= AmE06_H28>

Improved Relations with Outside Entities
DOE organizations reported improved relations with outside entities, including improved
relations with regulatory agencies and better community relations.
2. BEST PRACTICES/LESSONS LEARNED
Facilities were invited to provide up to three statements identifying EMS
implementation best practices/lessons learned.
DOE organizations reported numerous examples of best practices/lessons learned
associated with EMS implementation at their facilities. These are discussed under the
following general categories.
• Integration
• Management/staff roles
• Communication/coordination
• Aspects analysis
• Auditing/assessment
• Goals/objectives/targets
• Documentation
• Contacting/Subcontracting
• Electronics recycling
• Procedural and program practices.
The following paragraphs highlight best practices/lessons learned in each of these
categories.
Integration
DOE organizations reported lessons learned/best practices associated with integrating
environmental management considerations into their policies, operations, planning, and
management. Integration was cited at various levels, including the workplace, site, and
mission. One site reported:
"integrating EMS principles and the National Environmental Policy Act
evaluations through use of an environmental checklist,"
and another said that:
"ISO 14001 laid the foundation for implementation of the OHSAS 18001 system
for occupational safety and health."
One site reported that the: 
"integration of environmental corrective actions into the project's overall
[corrective action tracking] system provides an excellent example of the seamless
integration of the EMS into fundamental operational processes."
One lesson learned regarding integration was that:
"true integration with safety is difficult (processes will integrate but philosophy of
safety still dominates)."
Management/Staff Roles
DOE organizations stressed the importance of senior management involvement for EMS
success. One response is typical of many:
"Even though employees are generally environmentally responsible in their
actions, without the support and emphasis of top management, the EMS would
probably struggle to succeed."
Variations on this theme included the need for senior management support to "establish a
single entity with overall responsibility and authority if EMS covers diverse groups;" the
need for senior management to remain engaged  -  at least on an annual basis; and the
benefits of senior management support for marketing, sitewide communication and
aggressive EMS promotion. Sites also noted that acceptance of objectives/targets should
be at all levels involved with the subsequent management program  -  not just top
management, and that a bottoms-up approach to EMS design and direction produced
strong staff ownership.
Communication/Coordination
Lessons learned and best practices regarding communication and coordination were
reported by DOE organizations. A recurrent theme was the need for early and frequent
communication. Specific lessons learned included the need to develop an understanding
of environmental impacts among employees and the need for a full-time EMS
coordinator, especially at the larger facilities. One site reported that:
"Translating [the site's] over 24 aspects and potential impacts into terms which
can be communicated effectively to employees was an influential action taken in
response to an assessment (continual improvement cycle). This translation was
then quickly incorporated into [the site's] General Employee Training."
Best practices included the establishment of a lessons learned project point of contact for
each program area and the dissemination of examples of successes to line organizations
to provide guidance to future projects. One site observed that:
"Close working relationships between the environmental professionals, facilities
operations, procurement, and experimental operations personnel provide the best
opportunities for adoption of sustainable practices across the organization. By fostering these relationships, environmental professionals can help influence
decisions made throughout the organization in order to promote sustainable
practices."
Organizations reported lessons learned regarding marketing as a form of communication.
For example, one said that extensive marketing was effective, and another reported that:
"By keeping the EMS policy simple, it was easy to turn it into an acronym that
helped remind employees of environmental commitments. The policy
commitments  -  Pollution Prevention, Community, Cleanup, Continual
Improvement and Compliance  -  were condensed into the acronym P2C4."
Aspects Analysis
DOE organizations reported best practices or lessons learned regarding the analysis and
evaluation of environmental aspects. These included the importance of broad input to
aspect/impact identification, that the aspects analysis process needs to mature with the
EMS, and that revisions will be required as significant aspects are reevaluated. One
organization reported that the greater the effort (broad-based involvement) to identify
activities and their environmental aspects, the greater the potential to recognize areas for
improvement through new objectives and targets. Best practices cited include:
"Environmental impacts and aspects are analyzed along with health and safety
concerns on a continual basis during review of individual work packages as they
are prepared for field work,"
and
"Annual evaluations of aspects and impacts to identify potential vulnerabilities as
a result of changing conditions. Examples include facility demolitions;
equipment moves; and process start ups."
Auditing/Assessment
DOE organizations reported best practices and lessons learned regarding auditing and
assessment. One noted that a defined self-assessment process facilitates continuous
improvement, and another reported that it had integrated a process-assessment approach
that allows for periodic review of environmental aspects of major operations. Another
facility reported that a:
"Robust internal EMS audit process drives continuous improvement and
demonstrates commitment to external auditors."
Another said that using an external auditor gives the program more credibility.
Goals/Objectives/targets
DOE organizations reported lessons learned regarding goals and objectives. One noted
that the objectives should be achievable even under adverse conditions, and another
reported that the "establishment of annual goals and objectives allows management to
identify important ESH issues in their organizations."
Documentation
DOE organizations reported on the advantages of using electronic documentation. One
said:
"The documentation of the [project] EMS has been done entirely electronically
through our Intranet. Using web page documentation has made it much easier to
update and manage changing processes and procedures."
Another said that:
"[The laboratory] utilizes a state-of-the art database system . . . to manage its
environmental management obligations. This internet-based relational database
system allows for the integrated management of citations (permit requirements,
regulatory citations, etc.), operational requirements, tasks, monitoring data,
documents, and reporting. Automatic comparison of requirements against
regulatory limits and escalating e-mail notifications provide robust compliance
management tools. User-specific regulatory update notifications provide flexible
and powerful tools to manage regulatory compliance obligations. Reporting and
document management functions provide a comprehensive status of
environmental performance."
Contracting/Subcontracting
Organizations reported lessons learned regarding EMS and contracting, including that
EMS targets were tied directly to concrete objectives. They noted that:
"EMS supports the subcontracting process through consideration and inclusion of
environmental issues."
"The transition of management and operating responsibilities from the previous
contractor to [the current operating contractor] demonstrates continuation of
commitments to the prevention of pollution, compliance with applicable
requirements, and continual improvement."
Electronics Recycling
One organization reported a best practice that it intends to repeat in future years:
"During Earth Day, 2006 [the organization] sponsored an employee electronics
recycling day whereby personnel and their families could bring old electronic
equipment in to be reused or recycled by [the organization's] recycling contract
vendor. Approximately 4500 lbs of old electronic equipment, televisions,
computers, etc. were accumulated at this event. It was apparent from comments
made by employees that there are few means in the general public to recycle old
electronic equipment. [The organization] is planning to perform this service next
year in hopes of expanding the total amount of equipment recycled."
Procedural and Program Practices
Various EMS procedural and program best practices were identified. Examples include
the following:
Flexibility.
"The EMS needs to be flexible to accommodate different types of workers
in the organization. Changes in performance take time."
Implementation.
"Use of EMS toolkit to assist in EMS implementation and operation."
Purchasing.
"Use of warehouse to purchase in-stock 'green' items."
Planned work reviews. One organization reported its process for facilitating
approval of work documents:
"All planned work (in the form of a Work Document) undergoes
comprehensive review by the site Work Review Group, which is
comprised of representatives from the following departments: Safety,
Environmental Affairs, Radiation Protection, QA, and the work group
assigned to complete the task. The process requires that a hazard analysis
checklist be completed for each work activity planned. The checklist
includes an evaluation for applicability of waste minimization/pollution
prevention opportunities to the work, as well as required environmental
reviews. When environmental aspects are identified during the checklist
process, subject matter experts from the Environmental Affairs department
evaluate the proposed work with respect to applicable state and federal
environmental regulations and associated permits. Based upon these
environmental reviews, and as necessary, the Environmental Affairs
department will modify the work scope to comply with existing permits, modify existing permits/licenses, or apply for new permits/licenses. The
method for transmitting the upcoming work packages to the Work Review
Group via electronic mail prior to issuance is noteworthy. This process
allows time for representatives of the Work Review Group to thoroughly
review each document and brainstorm any questions prior to the work
being performed. The implementation of this process allows for an
efficient mode in getting work documents approved."
Energy conservation. DOE organizations reported that energy conservation
measures were implemented or improved at their sites. For example, one said that
"Through energy and environmental conservation efforts, the amount of
natural gas consumed in the X-6002 Boilers was reduced by
approximately 59% for the period from October 2005 through July 2006.
This was accomplished through reducing thermostat settings and by
application of a biocide to control bacteria growth in the boiler water
during the summer months instead of running the boilers to keep the
temperature high enough to control the bacteria growth. In addition to the
cost savings of $173,900, the reduction in consumption of natural gas
resulted in a corresponding reduction in risk of harm to the environment
by reducing the quantity of greenhouse gas emissions (CO2) by
approximately 2 million pounds."
Programs and operating procedures. Best practices regarding programs and
operating procedures included the following:
• An Environmental Program Description that addresses all of the specified
DOE Order 450.1 requirements.
• Standard operating procedures (for used oil and for cold weather), emergency
response systems, a [site] Safety Observer program (which has provided
localized support to ensure issues are identified and corrected), and
aggressively conducted Pollution Prevention Opportunity Assessments that
result in the elimination or reduction of emissions, effluents, and waste.
• Required periodic reviews to ensure that the EMS remains current and
dynamic.
3. EMS IMPLEMENTATION CHALLENGES
Facilities were invited to provide up to three statements identifying EMS
implementation challenges.
DOE organizations identified several challenges to EMS implementation, which have
been grouped under the following topics:
• Funding/resources/costs
• Staff resources/turnover
• Integration
• Awareness
• Management
• Compliance
• Communication
• Flowdown of requirements
• Cultural change/mindset
• Procurement
• Continuous improvement
• Other priorities
• Other challenges
Funding/Resources/Costs
Three related types of funding issues were reported: (1) lack of funding, (2) competition
with other funding priorities, and (3) additional costs posed by EMS. A typical lack-offunding
challenge was:
"The ability to dedicate resources to implementation is hampered by uncertainties
in funding availability and application."
Funding competition challenges included:
"New contract significantly reduced funding across the Lab creating priority
problems."
"With environment as a supporting function, it is not always given a priority in
the organization. Additional documentation required by EMS requires resources
not always available."
Staff Resources/Turnover
Related to funding challenges are staffing challenges. Organizations cited the challenges
of limited personnel resources and of transferring EMS knowledge to a staff with high
turnover rates. For example, one said that meeting reporting requirements in a timely
manner is difficult with the minimal staff available to conduct EMS.
Integration
Organizations expressed challenges pertaining to EMS integration. Specific integration
challenges included integration among site contractors and into various levels within the
organization, integration of EMS principles into the work control processes and day-today
activities, and integration of the EMS into other management systems. Examples
include:
"The single greatest challenge to achieve the long-term benefit of an EMS is to
fully integrate it within a site's management structure."
"Joint Federal/Contractor EMS poses challenges to EMS management, audits and
reviews."
"Managing a vast number of procedures and instructions required to address
significant environmental aspects requires constant vigilance from multiple
disciplines."

Awareness
DOE organizations said that maintaining awareness was a challenge and that training was
needed to foster awareness.

</file>

<file= AmE06_H29>

The objective of our governance structure is to maintain corporate governance principles, policies and practices that support management and Board of Directors accountability. These are in the best interest of the Company and our shareholders, and they are consistent with the Company's Purpose, Values and Principles. We believe that good governance practices contribute to better results for shareholders. Everything we do is done with our commitment to "doing the right thing" in mind.
Corporate Governance and Management's Responsibility P&G has a strong history of doing what's right. Our employees embrace our Purpose, Values and Principles. If you analyze what has made our Company successful over the years, you may focus on our brands, our marketing strategies, our organization design, our ability to innovate. But if you really want to get at what drives our Company's success, the place to look is our people. Our people are deeply committed to our Purpose, Values and Principles. It is this commitment to doing what's right that unites us. This commitment to doing what's right is embodied in our financial reporting. High-quality financial reporting is our responsibility  -  one we execute with integrity and within both the letter and spirit of the law. High-quality financial reporting is characterized by accuracy, objectivity and transparency. Management is responsible for maintaining an effective system of internal controls over financial reporting to deliver those characteristics in all material respects. The Board of Directors, through its Audit Committee, provides oversight. They have engaged Deloitte & Touche LLP to audit our consolidated financial statements, on which they have issued an unqualified opinion. Our commitment to providing timely, accurate and understandable information to investors encompasses: Communicating Expectations to Employees Every employee  -  from senior management on down  -  is trained on the Company's Worldwide Business Conduct Manual, which sets forth the Company's commitment to conduct its business affairs with high ethical standards. Every employee is held personally accountable for compliance and is provided several means of reporting any concerns about violations.

Maintaining a Strong Internal Control Environment Our system of internal controls includes written policies and procedures, segregation of duties, and the careful selection and development of employees. The system is designed to provide reasonable assurance that transactions are executed as authorized and appropriately recorded, that assets are safeguarded, and that accounting records are sufficiently reliable to permit the preparation of financial statements conforming in all material respects with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. We monitor these internal controls through control self-assessments by business unit management. In addition to performing financial and compliance audits around the world, including unannounced audits, our Global Internal Audit organization provides training and continuously improves internal control processes. Appropriate actions are taken by management to correct any identified control deficiencies. Executing Financial Stewardship We maintain specific programs and activities to ensure that employees understand their fiduciary responsibilities to shareholders. This ongoing effort encompasses financial discipline in our strategic and daily business decisions and brings particular focus to maintaining accurate financial reporting and effective controls through process improvement, skill development and oversight. Exerting Rigorous Oversight of the Business We continuously review our business results and strategic choices. Our Global Leadership Council is actively involved  -  from understanding strategies to reviewing key initiatives, financial performance and control assessments. The intent is to ensure we remain objective, identify potential issues, continuously challenge each other and ensure recognition and rewards are appropriately aligned with results. Engaging our Disclosure Committee We maintain disclosure controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed is recorded, processed, summarized and reported accurately and in timely fashion. Our Disclosure Committee is a group of senior-level executives responsible for evaluating disclosure implications of significant business activities and events. The Committee reports its findings to the CEO and CFO, providing an effective process to evaluate our external disclosure obligations.
Encouraging Strong and Effective Corporate Governance from Our Board of Directors
We have an active, capable and diligent Board that meets the required standards for independence, and we welcome the Board's oversight. Our Audit Committee comprises independent directors with significant financial knowledge and experience. We review significant accounting policies, financial reporting and internal control matters with them and encourage their independent discussions with external auditors. 
Our corporate governance guidelines, as well as the charter of the Audit Committee and certain other committees of our Board, are available on our website at www.pg.com/company/our_commitment/corp_gov
Governance Structure 
We believe that good governance practices contribute to better results for shareholders. Our objective is to maintain corporate governance principles, policies and practices that support management and Board of Directors accountability. These are in the best interest of the Company and our shareholders, and they are consistent with the Company's Purpose, Values and Principles. 
Governance starts with the Board of Directors, which has general oversight responsibility for the Company's affairs, pursuant to Ohio's General Corporation Law and the Company's Code of Regulations and Bylaws. In exercising its fiduciary duties, the Board of Directors represents and acts on behalf of the shareholders. Although the Board of Directors does not have responsibility for day-to-day management of the Company, it stays informed about the business and provides guidance to management through periodic meetings, site visits and other interactions. 
The Board is deeply involved in the Company's strategic planning process, leadership development and succession planning. The Board has several committees to facilitate its oversight of the Company. These include Audit, Compensation & Leadership Development, and Governance & Public Responsibility. The responsibilities of the Governance & Public Responsibility Committee include oversight of organization diversity, sustainable development, community and government relations, product quality assurance and corporate reputation. The Board of Directors and its committees operate under our Corporate Governance Guidelines and Charters. Additionally, the Board has adopted guidelines for determining the independence of its members. As of June 2006, approximately 72 percent of our directors qualified as being independent. 
The Board has approved a code of conduct, outlined in our Worldwide Business Conduct Manual. This code applies to all directors, officers and employees and is designed to help ensure compliance with all applicable laws and Company 
policies, including those related to sustainable development. Shareholders may communicate with the Board of Directors and submit shareholder proposals as described in the Company's proxy statement.
Executive Compensation 
Executive compensation is based on principles that have served the Company well and enabled it to increase shareholder value:
• Pay competitively.
• Pay for performance. 
• Design compensation programs that support the business. 
These principles have helped the Company develop and retain extraordinary executive talent. P&G develops executives from within, an achievement few other major corporations have matched. 
A substantial portion of compensation is composed of variable, at-risk incentives, the majority based on the Company's long-term success. We benchmark the Company's pay structure annually and also review its business and financial performance. 
Additionally, we expect executives to uphold the fundamental principles in the Company's Statement of Purpose, Values and Principles, plus the Worldwide Business Conduct Manual, the Sustainability Report, and the Environmental Quality Policy. These principles include integrity, maximizing the development of each individual, developing a diverse organization, and continually improving the environmental quality of the Company's products and operations. In upholding these principles, executives not only contribute to their own success but also help ensure the prosperity of P&G's business, employees, shareholders and the communities in which the Company operates.
Stakeholder Engagement
P&G works hard to be a good corporate neighbor and to improve lives in the communities where we live and work.
Communities
Each P&G production facility has site-specific activities to build constructive relationships with local authorities, local industry associations, residential and business neighbors, local action groups, thought leaders and news media. Depending on individual communities' cultures and interests, this can range from regular official meetings during which new information is shared or questions are answered, to more informal meetings. This could be, for example, a reception for the immediate neighbors, where information on the past year and plans for the new year are discussed. P&G ensures continuity in community interaction by meeting regularly with local authorities to update them on plant news. In the neighborhoods of many P&G operations, the Company cooperates with and sponsors local events, so the whole area benefits from the presence of a P&G site.
P&G recognizes the importance of improving the quality of life in our local communities, and we support local initiatives and encourage employee involvement. The most valuable community support we provide usually involves not only writing a check but also taking advantage of the intellectual capabilities and energy of P&G people. We look for areas where we can make a significant long-term, systemic difference. This leads us to focus heavily on education and health, with special emphasis on youth. It also leads us to build alliances with strategic partners to achieve a better result than we could alone. We look to our people in the area to work with their local communities and government officials to learn where we can make the biggest difference.
Caring
Committed, Involved, Knowledgeable, Passion for making a real difference.
Communities
Each P&G production facility has site-specific activities to build constructive relationships with local authorities, local industry associations, residential and business neighbors, local action groups, thought leaders and news media. Depending on individual communities' cultures and interests, this can range from regular official meetings during which new information is shared or questions are answered, to more informal meetings. This could be, for example, a reception for the immediate neighbors, where information on the past year and plans for the new year are discussed. P&G ensures continuity in community interaction by meeting regularly with local authorities to update them on plant news. In the neighborhoods of many P&G operations, the Company cooperates with and sponsors local events, so the whole area benefits from the presence of a P&G site.
P&G recognizes the importance of improving the quality of life in our local communities, and we support local initiatives and encourage employee involvement. The most valuable community support we provide usually involves not only writing a check but also taking advantage of the intellectual capabilities and energy of P&G people. We look for areas where we can make a significant long-term, systemic difference. This leads us to focus heavily on education and health, with special emphasis on youth. It also leads us to build alliances with strategic partners to achieve a better result than we could alone. We look to our people in the area to work with their local communities and government officials to learn where we can make the biggest difference.
NGOs: Local  -  Regional  -  Global
P&G frequently enters into dialogue with nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) to understand their concerns and cares. In order to work constructively with stakeholders, it is essential to have their confidence and to be seen as a reliable and open discussion partner. By building an open relationship we can approach our NGO partners when issues arise. There is a wide range of NGOs varying by area of interest (environmental, consumer, animal welfare, etc.), by attitude (from extreme to moderate) and by their geographic links (from local to global). Depending on their characteristics, a number of NGOs can be seen as the vocal spokespeople for the general public.
Consumer organizations exist in many countries. These organizations contact companies to compare products and voice comments they receive from their members. P&G continuously provides consumer organizations with information on new initiatives and cooperates with them in answering consumer questions.
Fighting Bird Flu in China
Safeguard has joined with the Red Cross Society of China to educate the public about prevention and transmission of bird flu and to reduce bird flu's threat to communities.
Safeguard has developed a TV public service announcement explaining the importance of washing hands with soap. Safeguard is also designing and producing a key visual for use by the Red Cross in its bird flu education materials.
Bird flu originated in Asia. The first human case in China occurred in November 2005, despite the Chinese government's best efforts to prevent it by vaccinating poultry and culling flocks.

</file>

<file= AmE06_H30>

Students may receive assistance in generating ideas,
formulating a thesis/focus, planning, organizing, and/or revising. The center is ideal for students who need
assistance in writing, speech-intensive courses, or for students who would like to take their writing to the
next level.
SPLASH
The Successful Professional, Life, and Study Habits (SPLASH) program is a collaborative programming
initiative sponsored by Academic Services for Athletes, Career Services, the Student Counseling Center,
Residential Life and the Learning Resource Network. SPLASH speaks directly to the advancement of
students as leaders within their communities by focusing on the skills and abilities needed for succeeding in
the 21st century beyond those learned in the classroom. SPLASH programs contribute to the development of
the whole person through dynamic presentations on interpersonal skills, career preparation, personal
growth, and learning how to learn. SPLASH creates vibrancy on campus by modeling collaborative
interdepartmental efforts and by engaging students in creative and interactive ways while at the same time
exposing them to ideas and skills that will assist them in becoming personally satisfied and living as leaders
within their communities. SPLASH meets NCAA CHAMPS/Life skills programming criteria for studentathletes.
SPLASH programs are offered at various times throughout the semester.
ACCESSIBILITY PLAN FOR THE MOBILITY IMPAIRED
Jacksonville University recognizes its obligation to have classrooms accessible to persons with mobility
impairments. Generally, if a classroom is inaccessible, another classroom on the first floor of the same
building will be used to make a class accessible to a mobility impaired student. Staff members who have
offices located on the top floors of an inaccessible building will meet with students on the first floor of the
building they are located in, if the need arises.
The Vice President of Student Life will coordinate the relocation of classes and is also the point of
contact for students and staff who are mobility impaired.
CAMPUS AND STUDENT LIFE
Jacksonville University places a priority on a campus environment that is comfortable, safe and conducive to
living and learning. JU actively promotes a well-rounded program of co-curricular activities and experiences
to supplement and complement its academic programs. A majority of these activities are initiated, organized
and administered by students. Students are encouraged not only to attend, but to take part in co-curricular
programs and activities, including clubs and organizations, student media, recreation and athletic
competition, and cultural and entertainment offerings.
RESIDENTIAL FACILITIES
JU operates fully air-conditioned, smoke-free residence halls and apartments (see "Campus and Facilities"
in the General Information section). The residence halls and apartments accommodate about 1,100 students
and are supervised by a professional staff of residential life coordinators who live on the premises and who
are augmented by student staff members.
Undergraduate students who have been accepted for enrollment receive a room reservation form from
the Admission Office. Those students who desire or are required to live in campus residence halls should
complete the form, indicating room and, if applicable, roommate preferences, and return it to the Admission
Office with the appropriate deposit (new students, see "Enrollment Deposit" in the Admission section;
returning students, see "Residence Hall Deposit" in the Financial Information section). Room assignments
are made in July. New students are assigned residence hall rooms in the New Student Living and Learning
Community unless accommodations are required as a result of a documented disability. Although JU cannot
guarantee students preferences will be met, every effort is made to accommodate requests.
RESIDENCY POLICY
Jacksonville University is committed to the holistic development of students, thus the University has
established a residency policy, requiring first-year students to live on campus. Living on campus provides
students with the opportunity to share experiences with peers and take full advantage of the learning that
takes place outside the traditional classroom. The Office of Residential Life is responsible for monitoring
compliance with this policy as well as the enforcement of this policy.
As a residential campus, we require that all first-year students live on campus, and share in the
development of our living and learning communities, unless a student:
1. Reaches 21 years of age prior to the drop/add date of the semester/term.
2. Is legally married, as defined by the state of Florida.
3. Is a member of a branch of the armed services on active duty.
Students who reside with a family member may request permission to reside at such residence while
enrolled at the University. The residence must be located within reasonable commuting distance of the
University in Duval County, Florida or a neighboring county. Requests to reside off campus as a first year
student must be made in writing to the Office of Residential Life at students' time of first enrollment with the
University, and must be accompanied by appropriate documentation, as prescribed by the Office of
Residential Life.
Resident students should maintain a minimum credit load of 12 credit hours during the fall or spring
semesters and six (6) credit hours during the summer terms. Failure to enroll for a full academic load does
not alter the residency requirement.
Residential facilities close for recesses and vacations published in the academic calendar. Notices of
closings are posted prior to each period.
The Residency Policy is reviewed each year and is subject to change on an annual basis.
STUDENT ADDRESSES
All students, whether living on campus or off campus, must ensure their correct local and permanent
addresses are on file in the Registrar's Office. Changes of address must be reported to the Registrar
immediately.
PUBLIC SAFETY
Jacksonville University maintains a full-time public safety department that provides services 24 hours a day,
seven days a week. All public safety officers undergo background investigations prior to employment. The
mission of the Public Safety Department is crime prevention. This mission is accomplished by patrolling
University buildings and grounds, conducting safety and security education programs, providing safety
escort services, and enforcing other University rules and regulations under its jurisdiction. The department
also supervises campus traffic and parking and a network of "blue light" emergency telephones placed
throughout the campus. Public Safety serves as the campus lost and found depository. Public Safety also
maintains liaisons with local, state and federal law enforcement agencies.
STUDENT MEDICAL SERVICES
Resident students participate in the University Infirmary Plan. The fee for this plan is included in the
residence room charge. A doctor at the university's designated health care provider can see students
enrolled in the Infirmary Plan who become ill during the semester. The University provides transportation
through a local taxi service to and from the infirmary for students without their own transportation. After
normal office hours, an on-call doctor can be reached by calling the health care provider . In an emergency,
rescue is always called. The Infirmary Plan does not cover emergency medical needs. Students will need to
file individual insurance claims for these services.
Jacksonville University requires all full-time undergraduate students to carry a blanket accident
and health insurance policy (see "Medical Information" in the Admission section in this Catalog.)
SPECIAL STUDENT SERVICES
COUNSELING CENTER
Enrolled students may schedule appointments with professional counselors at the Student Counseling
Center. Assistance is available for problems related to stress, anxiety, depression, eating disorders,
relationship issues, alcohol and drugs, and family concerns. Confidentiality is protected under Florida law.
Students requiring long-term counseling may request referral services from the counselors.
DISABLED STUDENT SERVICES
The Student Life Office coordinates disabled student services. Available resources include, but are not
limited to, assistance with special accommodations, academic adjustments, study or tutorial assistance,
lifestyle management, service coordination with other University departments, community agency referrals,
and referral for testing and for reevaluation. Also, refer to "Non-Discrimination" in the General Information
section and "Disability Related Information" in the Admissions section.
INTERNATIONAL STUDENT SERVICES
To assist international students in maintaining status with the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Service and
transitioning smoothly to life in the United States and at JU, the University has designated an international
student advisor in the Student Life Office. The advisor guides international students through required U.S.
Federal and University processes and procedures from first semester of enrollment to graduation. Specific
information is published in the International Student Handbook, including immigration regulations, Internal
Revenue Service requirements, health and health insurance requirements, and general information about
U.S. customs and courtesies. International students also enjoy social contact through the International
Student Association (see "Clubs and Organizations" in this section.)
STUDENT GOVERNMENT ASSOCIATION
The Student Government Association (SGA), through the elected Student Senate, sponsors and funds cocurricular
organizations, events and activities from student life fees. Elections for class senators are held in
the spring, with the exception of the freshman class that holds its election in the fall. Students who are
academically eligible may run for and be elected to offices.
Each full time undergraduate student has an equal vote in student government. All students are
entitled to admission to University-sponsored campus events and free copies of some student publications.
Students also are eligible to participate in student organizations and activities, provided they meet academic
qualifications required by the University and eligibility requirements specified by an organization's charter,
constitution and/or bylaws.
CULTURAL AND ENTERTAINMENT ACTIVITIES
DOLPHIN PRODUCTIONS
JU students have opportunities to plan, promote and attend activities through Dolphin Productions, the
student events programming board. Dolphin Productions, offers a variety of concerts, comedians, lectures,
films, and other special events, including the annual Homecoming.
ARTIST SERIES
World-class artists headline the annual series of concerts given in Terry Concert Hall. Past performances
have included the Amabile Piano Quartet, the Juilliard String Quartet, Grant Johannesen, and the Albert
McNeil Jubilee Singers. JU students are admitted free with identification.
FINE ARTS SERIES
The Fine Arts Series consists of music, drama, dance events, art lectures, and exhibitions. Admission to
these performances is free to students who may obtain tickets upon presentation of their Dolphin Cards. An
active art exhibit program presents shows by visiting artists.
MUSICAL ORGANIZATIONS
The Concert Choir is open to all interested students. Participation in the Chamber Singers and the
Dolphinaires show choir is by audition only. The Chamber Singers ensemble performs frequently around
Jacksonville, the southeastern United States, and abroad. The Dolphinaires show choir combines song
and dance in a popular idiom. This entertaining group is in great demand locally. The Music Theatre
Workshop performs scenes from operas and musicals or short operas and also participates in major
opera and musical productions produced by the College of Fine Arts. Enrollment is by audition only.
Participation in the JU Community Orchestra is open by audition to qualified instrumentalists. The
orchestra is a significant Jacksonville cultural asset. The Concert Band provides performance opportunities
for interested and qualified wind and percussion players. The group is dedicated to the performance of the
finest works from the traditional and contemporary wind repertoire. The Jazz Ensemble is a select group that
performs a variety of standard and contemporary jazz selections. Other performance opportunities include
chamber music, percussion ensemble, jazz combo, and guitar ensemble.
Academic credit may be earned by participation in any of the performing groups. Music opportunities
are coordinated by the Department of Music of the College of Fine Arts.
FACULTY RECITAL SERIES
The Department of Music features its faculty artists in an annual series that includes a variety of exciting
chamber music and recital works. Admission is free to JU students.
DANCE ORGANIZATIONS
The JU Dance Theatre is the performance group for ballet, modern, and jazz dance. Interested students are
requested to audition for participation through the Department of Dance.
DRAMA AND THEATRE ORGANIZATIONS
All JU students are invited to participate in College of Fine Arts theatre activities. Open auditions are
conducted several times each year for productions of full-length and one-act plays in Swisher Auditorium.
Students are also invited to volunteer for backstage participation.
COMMUNITY CULTURAL EVENTS
Leading concert artists, professional Broadway plays, musicals, rock concerts, and ballets come to the
Jacksonville Veterans Auditorium and Florida Times-Union Center for the Performing Arts each year.
Various other events feature lectures and presentations in politics, public affairs, sciences, and the arts.
Reading and discussion series, forums, and art exhibits are also scheduled.

</file>

