<file= AmE06_C01>

Who is Scott M. Black and why is a dreary exhibition of works from his art collection on view at the Museum of Fine Arts? Black is a wealthy financier who runs Delphi Management, a Boston-based investment advisory company, and he is, as a wall text introducing "The Romance of Modernism: Paintings and Sculpture From the Scott M. Black Collection" announces, "a true friend of the museum."
Black has loaned works from his collection to the MFA, has funded an annual lecture series, and is an honorary MFA overseer. He is, in other words, someone with whom the MFA wants to stay on friendly terms.
So, rather than tell him that many of the paintings and sculptures in his collection would be prime candidates for deaccessioning if ever they were bequeathed to the MFA, the museum is giving him a nice, ego-boosting kiss of gratitude in the form of this depressingly uneven, mixed bag of an exhibition.
Fortunately, there are a fair number of keepers in the show, including a soberly realistic 1869 portrait of a woman in a lacy black dress by Renoir, a thinly painted view of reflective water and rural scenery by Monet that shows how intensely responsive to visual reality the great Impressionist could be at his best, and a verdant landscape painted in 1874 by Cezanne when he was spending a lot of time in the company of Camille Pissarro.
Edgar Degas's murky double portrait "Pagans and Degas's Father" has an enigmatic psychological tension, and the picture's unstable composition of tipped-forward furniture and off-center figures facing in opposite directions looks forward to the dynamic flux of Cubism.
One of the gems of the show is a small, bird's-eye view of a bridge over the Seine made in 1900 by Henri Matisse. Its intense colors, stark contrasts of light and dark, and thick, sensuous strokes of paint anticipate the artist's history-changing breakthrough into Fauvism.
Also historically momentous is a small picture of geometrically simplified trees and houses painted in greens and browns by Georges Braque. Made under the influence of Cezanne and Picasso in 1908, it belongs to that heady moment when Cubism was being born, and though it is small and drably colored, it still vibrates with the feeling of revolutionary discovery.
In a small Cubist composition of tubular forms by Fernand Leger from 1917, you can also feel the excitement of an artist alive to new possibilities.
If the exhibition consisted only of these and a few other works, it could have been a fine small show, a conservative but still eye- and mind-engaging Modernist sampler. But there are many exceedingly undistinguished things diluting the general impact.
There are vapid pastel portraits by Renoir; other, mediocre Monets; a group of small, posthumously cast bronze nudes by Rodin that resemble gift-shop reproductions; and garish Pointillist paintings by Theodore van Rysselberghe, Maximilien Luce, and Henri Edmond Cross that almost look as if they were made by paint-by- numbers kits.
There is an especially gaudy painting by Georges Seurat's most accomplished associate, Paul Signac, created in 1916, decades after Pointillism had been superseded by other Modernist movements. Made of little patches of paint, the image of sailboats on a peaceful sea with explosive pink clouds in a turquoise sky might recall a decorative mosaic for a Mediterranean restaurant, were it not for the German gunboats skulking in from the right.
Other works that bring down the overall quality of the show include paintings by Leger from the late '20s that could have been made by assistants; bland, table-top size bronzes modeled by Henry Moore in his trademark semiabstract figurative style; efforts by the Surrealists Magritte, Miro, and Yves Tanguy that look like imitations by other, less talented artists; and a watercolor from the 1960s by Marc Chagall depicting a clown and a pink, nude woman arm-in-arm called "Tenderness" that epitomizes the treacly sentimentality to which he was prone in his later years. The deterioration of Modernism into kitsch is well illustrated by this exhibition.
In an interview in the show's catalog with MFA curator George Shackelford, Black acknowledges that his acquisitions are often determined by economics. He can't afford to buy great works by top- tier artists, so he looks for lesser and cheaper works by famous artists and good works by lesser artists. Instead of a prime piece from the teens by the Italian metaphysical painter Giorgio de Chirico, he gets one of the artist's late rehashes - this one from 1954 - of his early, more celebrated works. Instead of Seurat, he gets Signac.
This approach can work if you have excellent or interestingly personal taste, and there are a few notable curiosities in the show, like a small, sketchy portrait by Pierre Bonnard of a young woman named Renee Monchaty, a disappointed lover of his who committed suicide in 1924.
A 1923 painting by Edouard Vuillard of two women in a room, one nude and the other helping her to dress, is another intriguing oddity. And a 1934 stripe-patterned portrait by Picasso of his lover Marie-Therese Walter is arresting for its boldly colored abstraction, even if it is not among his best works of the period.
One of the exhibition's weirdest items is a large, dreamlike painting by the Surrealist Paul Delvaux, in which a man tips his bowler hat to a half-nude woman in a Renaissance-style plaza. Delvaux was not a great artist, but his painting's slightly twisted eroticism is exciting to see in this otherwise blandly decorous exhibition.
For the most part Black's taste looks generic and tame - the product more of an amateurish reverence for standardized art history than of any distinctively personal imagination. He's not a connoisseur, he's a bargain hunter who sometimes gets lucky.
It is a calm October evening in New Haven, and a thunderously rainy night in Hell. The Yale Rep is staging "Eurydice," Sarah Ruhl's extraordinary reimagining of the Orpheus myth.
The production brims with lovely, memorable images: tiled walls that give Hell the feeling of an abandoned swimming pool, an elevator that rains on its occupants, glowing letters mailed between the living and the dead. And, of course, there's the familiar heartbreak of the story itself. Orpheus, distraught over the death of his bride, Eurydice, breaches the gates of Hades to reclaim her. He is permitted to lead her out with his songs, on the condition that he never look back - then loses her forever because, in fact, he couldn't resist that backward glance.
All this is powerfully created in Ruhl's simple, strong language and Les Waters's sensitive and imaginative staging. Ruhl also makes an interesting power shift; her Eurydice is not a passive rescued damsel, but a conflicted woman who makes a noise to attract Orpheus's gaze because she's not entirely sure she wants to leave.
It's a fascinating night in the theater, and I scribble excited notes for the review I plan to write the next day. There's a lot to think about, a lot to write about, and that fills me with energy and delight.
Then it's over, and I walk to my car. I get in, put the key in the ignition, and break down into heaving, racking sobs. All I can think about is the image of Eurydice's father, who in this version has preceded her to the underworld and is there to ease her early confusion at being suddenly dead.
He has painstakingly reconstructed his own memory from scraps of language, but she at first remembers nothing - including him. He takes care of her anyway, lovingly constructing a "room" by outlining a block of air with a single long piece of string. And then they sit together, and he tells her stories, and slowly he brings her back to herself.
This is why she doesn't want to leave, and it's also why I can't stop crying. I saw this play Oct. 3; my father had died Sept. 7. Ours was a complicated relationship - whose isn't? - and though I had gone through the rituals of mourning I had been troubled by finding myself unable to cry more than about five tears at a time.
But now, picturing this imaginary father spinning a web of love around his imaginary child, I feel all the sorrow and guilt and confusion and anger and loss that I have been refusing to let in. I cry for a long time. And then, feeling just as cleansed and purified and exhausted as we were promised by all those theories of catharsis in freshman English, I drive the two hours back home.
The next day, after begging my editors for an extra 24 hours to process the whole experience, I set about my usual juggling routine: baking a birthday cake for my son, getting ready to go out that night to another play. Late that afternoon, my brother-in-law calls to say that my mother, whose cancer has so far caused few symptoms, has taken a sudden turn. A few frantic decisions later, a colleague is reviewing that night's play, and I'm serving a rushed birthday cake and then driving to New Hampshire.
My mother dies that night.
Obviously, I never wrote my review of "Eurydice." (Unless this counts.) But the play, more than most I have seen this year, continues to haunt me. And what it leads me to think about now, as I look back on my tumultuous entry into the role of full-time critic, is how complicated it can be to sort out the many elements that compose our response to a play: not just the play itself and the particular production of it, but what's going on in our own lives and, more broadly, the life of the culture around us.
For example, I saw "Eurydice" not just in the mournful personal context of the death of my parents, but as one of several plays this year that seemed unusually willing to grapple with death in complex, theatrically vivid, and nuanced ways. "Rabbit Hole," at the Huntington, trod a delicate line between unbearable pain and bleak humor as it explored the aftermath of a child's death. Company One's "After Ashley" tipped more toward the darkly comic side in its tale of a publicity-mad widower and his appalled son, but it also found the grief among the gags. And "Wings of Desire" at the American Repertory Theatre presented an indelible image of time, eternity, and the line between them: a streaming column of sand.
As for "Eurydice," it was only one of three retellings of the Orpheus myth on nearby stages this year. At the ART, Robert Woodruff and Rinde Eckert collaborated on the hypnotic "Orpheus X," which also placed more power in Eurydice's hands - and made her a poet in her own right and a stranger to Orpheus, a rock star who mourns her only because his cab happened to run her down. Meanwhile, Chen Shi- Zheng's "Orfeo" mixed the myths of many cultures, first at London's English National Opera and then with the Handel & Haydn Society here.
I missed that production because of my father's death. And I vividly remember "Orpheus X" because I interviewed Woodruff about it for a preview story in March - from the emergency room, where my father had just arrived after the catastrophic fall that began his last downward spiral.
So, for me, these Orpheus stories are inextricably entwined with my own losses. But what is it about this musician's doomed mission to Hades that seems to be speaking so insistently to many others, too?
Well, it's hard not to see the shadow of the Twin Towers. Particularly in "Orpheus X," the resonance of public mourning for the deaths of strangers was impossible to ignore. And the complicated struggle in these retellings between remembrance and forgetting, between turning back and moving on, also seems to connect to a uniquely American ambivalence. We build memorials to everything, even as we declare that today is the first day of the rest of our lives.

</file>

<file= AmE06_C02>

Two years ago, Jack Hirschman, a social activist and communist, backed Matt Gonzalez's run for San Francisco mayor. On Thursday, the business community's candidate and victor in that race, Mayor Gavin Newsom, will officially name him the city's new poet laureate.
Hirschman, who at 72 has been a prominent figure in American poetry with a half-century of published work, is scheduled to accept the post at noon at a City Hall ceremony. Four hours later, he plans to be reading poetry on the steps of the State Building in San Francisco at a demonstration against the death penalty.
That should surprise no one. For Hirschman has used his words and his body to protest injustice for decades.
What may be more surprising is that Newsom selected him to serve as San Francisco poet laureate.
Hirschman, who has been arrested numerous times in social protest, was a notable supporter of Gonzalez, the then-president of the Board of Supervisors and Green Party member who was Newsom's chief opponent in the 2003 mayor's race. Hirschman described his candidate as a political leader dedicated to transforming "the system of same-old machine politics and corruption.''
Despite comments like that, or maybe because of them, Newsom, a dedicated Democrat who came into office endorsed by the Chamber of Commerce and real estate developers, said Hirschman was the right person for the poet laureate post.
"I want that position to be more audacious, more exciting, to shake things up,'' Newsom told The Chronicle. "I want someone who will challenge the status quo.''
Hirschman's reaction: "That's excellent. I like statements like that.''
The San Francisco poet laureate program began under Mayor Willie Brown in 1998. Since then, three poets have held the title: Lawrence Ferlinghetti, Janice Mirikitani and devorah major. Hirschman is Newsom's first appointment to the non-paying post.
The mayor was presented with a list of three candidates selected by a search committee headed by City Librarian Luis Herrera that included poets Bob Booker and Jewelle Gomez, and Joyce Jenkins, editor of Poetry Flash, a poetry review focused on the West Coast. Newsom said he had reviewed the panel's recommendations, read the finalists' work and consulted with his father, retired state judge William Newsom, who holds a master's degree in English literature from Stanford.
"On the basis of all that I made my decision," Newsom said. "I know Jack Hirschman's obviously a charged pick, with all these layers of intrigue. But it's not like I'm appointing him planning commissioner.''
"That he chose me I find really admirable,'' Hirschman said of Newsom. "But then he's done some other things in office that, if not provocative, certainly got people's attention.''
Topping his list: Newsom's decision in 2004 to grant marriage licenses in San Francisco to same-sex couples. Hirschman praised Newsom's gay marriage stance, describing it as forward-thinking and bold, and also lauded the mayor's efforts to help some segments of the homeless population.
The role of San Francisco poet laureate comes with few guidelines. He or she must deliver an inaugural address on the state of poetry in San Francisco, read at Litquake -- an annual literary festival in the city -- and work on poetry programs in the community.
To be considered for the post, the person must be a San Francisco resident who has written at least one full-length book of poetry -- not self-published -- and has had at least 20 poems appear in well- established publications.
Hirschman, a North Beach resident who embodies the bohemian lifestyle that made the neighborhood famous, is prolific. Emerging as a poet during the Beat Generation, he has written more than 70 books -- his first was published in 1953. He has translated dozens more from Spanish, German, Greek, French, Hebrew, Russian and tongues not so common, such as Haitian Creole and Albanian. His work, as an editor and a poet, has been published in literary journals, magazines and newspapers.
Gonzalez said it didn't surprise him that Newsom had chosen Hirschman.
"It would be hard to pass over a writer like him,'' said Gonzalez, a friend of Hirschman's and his bibliographer. "It's sort of like conferring on him this title that people have already given him. He is the poet laureate.''
Nancy Peters, who runs City Lights Publishing and edited Hirschman's book "Lyripol" 30 years ago, agreed.
"Jack is someone who lives for poetry,'' said Peters, who co- owns the venerable City Lights bookstore in North Beach with Ferlinghetti. "He has a wonderful ability to combine social justice with a lyric voice.''
Hirschman believes the greatest poets are those who are provocative and prophetic and who, as Newsom says of him, challenge the status quo, he said.
Hirschman called his being selected San Francisco poet laureate an honor for him personally "and I think a very small victory for the people's movement, which has had very few victories recently in this chaotic world.''
When Julia Fischer played the Sibelius Violin Concerto with the San Francisco Symphony three years ago, her performance was graced by an irresistible combination of tonal polish, technical precision and interpretive zeal. But those qualities were in perilously short supply during the young violinist's clunky recital Sunday afternoon in Berkeley's Hertz Hall.
For a listener who recalled Fischer's earlier appearance with admiration and even awe, the difference between the two events was alarming. In place of the limpid string tone and unforced ease that had once characterized her playing, there was now a rough-hewn grittiness that often spilled over into out-of-tune passages and ungainly phrasing. If not for the evidence of the program, it would have been hard to believe that this was the same musician.
What could have happened in the intervening years? One possibility is that Sunday's recital, presented by Cal Performances, was simply an off day, the kind that might happen to any artist during the grueling rounds of international touring. Maybe the next audiences will hear something more persuasive.
Here's another theory, which I like better. Perhaps Fischer -- by all the evidence an intelligent and engaged artist -- has embarked on some kind of musical makeover that is still awkwardly in progress.
The serenity and tenderness of her Sibelius performance had been expunged so completely that it seemed deliberate. It was as though Fischer had decided to punch up her playing with a more aggressive and athletic edge, but hadn't yet figured out how to integrate that with the other virtues of her style.
The opening rendition of Schubert's A-Major Violin Sonata, D. 574, certainly supported this view. Together with pianist Oliver Schnyder, whose contributions tended toward the weighty and pedantic all afternoon, Fischer tore mercilessly through the composer's innocent melodies as if she had something to prove. And although the slow movement enjoyed a sense of respite, both musicians soon returned to pummeling and pushing the piece along.
Grieg's Sonata No. 3, with its expansive rhetoric and occasional harmonic weirdness, was at least more suited to the duo's take-no- prisoners style. But Fischer tended to supply power without finesse, making much of the sonata sound simply ferocious. And on her own, she struggled laboriously through the huge fugue in Bach's C-Major Sonata before finding refuge in an alluring account of the Largo that was -- for the first time -- strong without being strident.
Surprisingly, Fischer's new-found brand of big-boned lyricism paid off most handsomely in the final offering, Saint-Sans' Sonata No. 1, crowned by a torrential account of the perpetual-motion finale. Joseph Achron's "Hebrew Melody" made a lovely encore.
Mountain climbing would seem a natural for suspense novels, but few authors have managed to capture both the psychological and physical challenges of clinging to a vertical face thousands of feet above the ground.
Jeff Long makes you feel as if you're there in The Wall (Atria; 304 pages; $24), set almost entirely on Yosemite's towering (and terrifying) El Capitan.
Hugh Glass and his former climbing partner, Lewis Cole, reunite after many years for one last fling on El Cap. The ascent is supposed to be an easy few days on the face, one last go-round for a pair of aging wall jockeys.
But what transpires is anything but routine, beginning with another climber falling to her death and almost hitting Hugh as he carries supplies into position. A subsequent encounter with a deranged mountain man heightens Hugh's apprehension about what's to come.
He and Lewis begin well enough, and Long does a great job of describing the minutiae of a climb -- the gear, the moves, the sense of freedom. Readers can almost feel the rock as Hugh's fingers explore for holds.
Then things start going bad. First, Lewis has an accident that will prevent him from going for the top. Then Hugh is all but drafted into an ill-prepared effort to rescue two women who may or may not be alive higher up the rock.
Once Hugh joins a rescue specialist named Augustine, "The Wall" takes a sharp turn into "Deliverance" territory, with Hugh increasingly facing dark, mystical challenges that lead him to wonder if the climb was cursed from the outset.
The inevitable storm that comes near the climax both heightens the sense of dread overshadowing the rescue and serves as an apt (if unsubtle) metaphor for the hell that's broken loose in Hugh's life.
In the end, he reaches a very bad place, one that few would be able to climb out of.
If you've been wondering what it would be like if Carl Hiaasen took a crack at a John le Carre spy novel, wonder no more. Tom Gabbay's The Berlin Conspiracy (Morrow; 294 pages; $24.95) mixes the insouciant breeziness of Hiaasen with all the grim Cold War trappings of le Carre.
The result works surprisingly well.
It's 1963, and Jack Teller is an ex-CIA spook now kicking back on the Florida coast. He's bitter about the Bay of Pigs fiasco -- idealism is Teller's weak spot -- and basically wants nothing more to do with spying.
Then comes a summons from his old boss at the agency, who says Teller has been specifically requested to meet with a mysterious East German official in Berlin. Back in action, Teller learns from the source that a plot is being cooked up to assassinate President Kennedy during his forthcoming visit to West Berlin. Worse, it looks as if the Americans, not the Soviets, are behind the scheme.
Anyone who saw Oliver Stone's "JFK" knows what's coming. Teller learns that sinister forces within the U.S. government see Kennedy as a threat to their anti-communist designs, and in turn have decided to get rid of the president and make it look as if a lone gunman were responsible for the killing.
It won't be spoiling anything to say that Teller foils the plot (which, as we know, will be attempted again in Dallas not long afterward). The fun of "The Berlin Conspiracy," and it is fun, lies in Teller's transformation from wisecracking miscreant to reluctant hero, and in the colorful characters he encounters along the way.
Gabbay, a former TV exec writing his first novel, does a fine job of depicting Berlin in the throes of the Cold War and of making the well-seasoned stew of Kennedy conspiracy theories seem fresh and topical. As with Stone's movie, a plausible case is made for why assorted interests would feel threatened by the youthful president, and how a conspiracy would be pulled off.
It may not be any more believable now, but it still gets you thinking.
Dana Stabenow has carved out a successful niche as the author of two Alaska-set mystery series. She now tries her hand at a stand- alone thriller, Blindfold Game (St. Martin's; 272 pages; $23.95), which is so fully formed that readers may wonder if they've entered midway through yet another series.
While the Alaskan setting is clearly a star attraction of the new novel, its heart rests with Hugh Rincon and Sara Lange. They're married, albeit distantly.

</file>

<file= AmE06_C03>

As season three of "Entourage" opens, "Aquaman" -- the movie that promises to transform Vince Chase (Adrian Grenier) from B-lister to megastar -- is opening nationwide imminently. Through the three episodes of the series that HBO made available for review, we discover the film's box-office fate, but what we don't learn is whether "Aquaman" is actually any good or not. 
There's no audience reaction at the premiere, nor any mention of the film's reviews, nor is the Valley audience with whom Vince and his hangers-on watch the movie on its opening weekend allowed to offer any opinion.
This could be because the show's writers are being coy, or because the real-life James Cameron -- portraying the fictitious James Cameron, director of "Aquaman" -- played along with the producers and they didn't want to suggest he made a junky movie. 
Or it could be yet another industry-insider joke in a series chockablock with them -- whether the movie is good or awful is irrelevant; it's all about the box office, baby. 
"Entourage" kicks off a most curious block of comedies debuting on HBO tonight -- its sleek polish segues into the lowbrow posturing of comedian Louis C.K.'s sitcom deconstruction "Lucky Louie," which will find favor mainly with nonreligious fans of "Blue Collar TV." That, in turn, gives way to the amorphous absurdities of stand-up comic Dane Cook, whose material amuses younger audiences but scarcely anyone over, say, 30. 
So the evening lacks what broadcasters would call "flow." Or, more to the point, it's almost pathologically schizophrenic. 
Back to "Entourage" for a moment. As Vince threatens to blow up big-time, the show itself has assumed a becoming modesty. In tonight's episode, Vince beseeches his neurotic mother (Mercedes Ruehl) to fly in to be his date for his potential blockbuster's premiere. Next week, an unfortunate series of events directs Vince and the gang to a high-school graduation party in Northridge, where they give a boost of self-confidence to the class nerds. After spending the entire episode railing against the lowly San Fernando Valley, Vince's brother, Drama (Kevin Dillon), begrudgingly admits the place ain't so bad. 
And in the third episode, a caustic buddy from the gang's past reappears, threatening rifts in the close-knit pack of horndogs. 
Even Ari (Jeremy Piven), Vince's evil-genius agent, cavorts with less vitriolic swagger than usual. 
Why HBO thinks "Entourage's" fan base will likewise embrace "Lucky Louie" is anyone's guess. Louis C.K. -- who has written for Conan O'Brien and Chris Rock and is a decent stand-up in his own right -- has reimagined "The Honeymooners" as a vehicle for masturbation jokes. 
But rather than parody the sitcom, he's stripped the genre of nuance: Whereas Art Carney's Ed Norton worked in New York's sewer system, here, that's where everyone's mind is. Studio audiences guffaw every time characters say naughty words or express naughty thoughts or engage in naughty activities. 
"Lucky Louie" opens with a typical sitcom moment -- a beleaguered dad (C.K.) sits with his eternally curious daughter, who challenges his every statement with a plaintive "Why?" After a protracted sequence, an exasperated Louie blurts out, "Because God is dead and we're alone," satisfying her inquisition but, nonetheless, seeming a long way to go for that mild laugh. 
Moreover, the show's writers are unburdened by the notion of character development. Tonight, Louie and wife Kim (Pamela Adlon) haven't had sex for months; next week, they're upon one another like ferrets. Tonight, Louie's pot-dealing pal is divorced; in a future episode, Louie tells him, "If you ever get married..." 
The show's plots and performances ape particularly lame sitcoms - - some moments are genuinely embarrassing -- which means the only real "joke" is that the studio audience is laughing at such rote material. 
HBO declares the show to be "the end of the sitcom as you know it," but does so with a pride that the show itself does not merit. 
After that comes "Dane Cook's Tourgasm," a lazy, home-movie-type show focusing on people who are clearly confident that they're far more inherently interesting than they actually are. Comics are needy types in the first place, so those Cook -- who comes off as an affable guy if not a particularly incisive comedian -- has recruited are particularly adept at mugging desperately for the cameras. 
For his comedy tour, Cook brought three other stand-up pals along for the ride. Only one, Gary Gulman, betrays any talent; the brief glimpses of his live performances are uniformly entertaining. 
The other two just seem like jerks -- Bobby Kelly is fairly hostile; Jay Davis is pretty whiny. The series follows the guys as they reconnoiter the country, with staged bits (scooter races, horse rides, faux-rock climbs) added to alleviate their tour-bus claustrophobia and to wring some vestige of "drama" from the proceedings. 
"Years down the line, I'm gonna look at this and it's going to be very close to my heart," Cook explicates earnestly. Well, that makes one of us. 
David Kronke, (818) 713-3638 david.kronke@dailynews.com 
Vince's (Adrian Grenier) neurotic mom, played by Mercedes Ruehl, flies out to be his date for the big "Aquaman" premiere on the hit "Entourage." 
Dane Cook takes his comedian pals on the road in "Dane Cook's Tourgasm." 
Pamela Adelon and Louis C.K. star in "Lucky Louie," which ought to amuse viewers who laugh when they hear naughty words on television. 
NO DOUBT Burt Munro was a great guy. 
A real character, the New Zealand motorcycle nut spent what appears to be the majority of his long life sleeping in a cinder- block shed with his mechanics' gear and his beloved 1920 Indian Twin Scout. In the 1960s, he finally got it together to cross the ocean to L.A. and travel overland to Utah's Bonneville Salt Flats, where he and the equally ancient bike eventually set a speed record. "The World's Fastest Indian" is about that journey. 
According to Roger Donaldson, who wrote and directed the movie (and met Munro in the 1970s), Burt was so gosh-darn lovable that even his neighbors in the small, South Island village of Invercargill forgave his revving motors at all hours and urinating on his lemon tree. The unattached elderly ladies of the community found him irresistible, but Burt was wedded to his dream of racing at the legendary proving grounds. 
Hopkins pours on the optimistic charm, of course. But Burt Munro is little more than a fantasy figure for the elderly in "The World's Fastest Indian." And however great it must have felt for the bloke to follow his dream, Hopkins seemed to be having a much better time back when he was stalking entrees to go with fava beans and Chianti. 
'BARNUM" IS a big musical with big numbers about a big man. So how does director Josh Prince adapt it to the little stage at NoHo Arts Center? 
Not too well. 
In this scaled-down production, bright ladders and streamers suggest a three-ring circus, and the players are in the audiences members' laps (literally, for one unlucky woman). 
This can-do spirit would work if "Barnum" had a strong narrative, but Mark Bramble's expository book would fit in a couple of typed pages. The composer Cy Coleman, who created his best work when inspired by a great lyricist, teamed with Michael Stewart here to create a mostly unmemorable score. 
The story centers on the opposites-attract relationship between the brash eponymous showman and his no-nonsense Yankee wife, Chairy; she disapproves of his hucksterism, but she's a good sport and is generally supportive. Even when Barnum falls into the arms of Jenny Lind, the "Swedish Nightingale," at the close of the first act, we find he has returned to his senses and his forgiving wife by the opening of act two; any canoodling seems to be have been done during intermission. The only remaining tension is to wonder when Bailey will turn up. 
To succeed, "Barnum" needs razzle-dazzle, and this tight space prohibits it. A recent evening was fraught with mishaps: dropped props, on-mic backstage noise, and (G-rated) wardrobe malfunctions. The young and energetic cast performed bravely; it wasn't their fault. This is simply too much show. 
If you're going to spend a couple of hours in the theater, however, you could do worse than to gaze at the startlingly beautiful Yvette Lawrence, who plays Chairy. She's got a pleasant voice, too. As Barnum, James J. Mellon executes chin-ups and treads a balance beam, but he just doesn't exude the larger-than-life quality that brought us the Greatest Show on Earth. The versatile Robert Mammana plays a number of supporting roles with chameleonlike efficiency, and Emily Kosloski sings a gorgeous "Love Makes Such Fools of Us All." 
On the evening under review, standby Jacquelyn Levy stepped in to sing the bluesy "Black and White" seamlessly. 
For a movie that isn't actually porn, "Shortbus" sure has a lot of real sex. 
All flavors, too. Straight. Gay. Single participant. More than two participants. More than 20. Electronics-enhanced. Voyeur- assisted. 
Dominatrix-guided. "Star Spangled Banner"-accompanied ... graphically so. 
OK, now you should know whether you can sit through "Shortbus." The rest of this review is for those who think they want to. 
Witty, funny, brave 
John Cameron Mitchell's follow-up to "Hedwig and the Angry Inch" is, basically, a sex farce that emphasizes the key element that's rarely depicted in film, if at all. And "Shortbus" is well-stocked with witty lines, funny situations and credible, intelligent character insights. It's acted spectacularly and bravely, by a cast of unknowns. If you can swing with it, "Shortbus" is a lot of fun. 
Until it shifts into a probably unavoidable serious mode. 
That's when Mitchell and his actors -- who developed the script together during a series of improvisational workshops -- take stock of their characters' lives, loves and libidos. They all come to honest conclusions but, by nature, some of their realizations can't help seeming a little trite. A movie that, for the longest time, is as original as it is uninhibited -- and you'll see things you never have in a movie before -- ends up feeling just a little square. 
The title refers to a salon in lower Manhattan where people go to share and discuss art, music, film, politics ... and then take off their clothes and jump all over one another. Sofia (Sook-Yin Lee) is a sex therapist who has never had an orgasm with her husband (Raphael Barker) or anyone else. She hears about Shortbus from a pair of gay clients and checks it out. Soon Sofia becomes a cause celebre for an assortment of sybarites, lesbians, sadomasochists and singer-songwriters, among other club patrons. 
Even Shortbus' snippy host/ess Justin Bond takes a shot at making Sofia happy. S/he's played by, well, Justin Bond, who's apparently a big name in New York's trans- 
entertainment scene. Bond initially comes off as a smart- 
mouthed stereotype, but listen to his snippy epigrams; they're rich with canny cultural observation and deep ache. 
Oh, how to choose 
As for that gay couple, former child actor Jamie (PJ DeBoy) and ex-hustler James (Paul Dawson) want to "monogamously" experiment with a third party -- problem is, there are several candidates. 
Furthermore, James isn't as into the idea as his partner is. This leads to tears, and perhaps far worse -- but also some pretty wacky encounters. And like everybody's quest for emotional and physical fulfillment in this movie, it yields hilarious dialogue that also manages to say a lot. 
I guess Mitchell is trying to comment on repression in the post- 9/11 world, and he's made it as specifically about New York as he can (panoramas of the city are rendered in blocky, color-saturated computer animation). But despite what many would call its peculiarities, the film really makes a universal statement. 
Who, after all, hasn't tried to find themselves through pleasure? Maybe not in the ways "Shortbus" gleefully depicts, but in ones that have nonetheless left us feeling naked, uncertain and at least a little bit satisfied.

</file>

<file= AmE06_C04>

Milan Trenc's children's book The Night at the Museum was 32 pages long, written and illustrated for ages 4 to 8. Of course, Hollywood took that and blew it out of proportion. 
Director Shawn Levy's movie version gets the demographic right. Children won't mind bad writing and big stars upstaged by has-beens as long as the T. Rex skeleton comes alive as it does in the TV ads. 
Bless their little indiscriminate hearts. The rest of us will watch Night at the Museum and wonder why we bothered. 
Trenc told a simple story about a night watchman searching for dinosaur bones that mysteriously disappear. Levy and two screenwriters make him into Ben Stiller with all the artificial humility and forced humor he brings. 
Stiller plays Larry Daley, divorced and unemployed after an invention failed. He devised the Snapper to switch on lights. Yes, there is already a Clapper. That's the cleverest writing the overlong setup offers. 
Larry's desperation to impress his son, Nick Jake Cherry, takes him to the Museum of Natural History where a security job is available. 
That's where the dinosaurs arrive. Not the T. Rex, but octogenarians Dick Van Dyke and Mickey Rooney, plus Bill Cobbs, 71, as security guards getting too old to deal with what happens at the museum at night. They're happy to be in a movie, or anywhere, and that adds a nice spark. 
After dark, all the exhibits become either computer-animated (the T. Rex, a woolly mammoth and an Easter Island idol) or actor-limited (Robin Williams going through the scattershot motions as Teddy Roosevelt). Owen Wilson declined a credit listing for his yahoo turn as a diorama cowboy, but we'd recognize that nose anywhere. Steve Coogan makes the most of a (literally) small role as a Roman general in a territory war with the diorama next door. 
Wee folks get the best jokes in Night at the Museum, as Larry's intrusion in their miniworlds become silly Lilliputian adventures. Larry's to-do list when the magic begins inspires a brisk sequence of pre-emptive strikes, and a mischievous monkey is a solid scampering joke. Night at the Museum pads its running time with Larry's paternal bonding, Williams' riffing and a curiously limited number of roaming exhibits for such a big place. 
Mostly, there's the distasteful notion of juicing a sweet children's book into blockbuster pulp. The folks behind Night at the Museum would have turned Curious George into the 1976 version of King Kong. 

How would you feel if every other word of this review were exteeeended a couple of eeeeextra syllables for impaaaact and eeeemphasiiiis? (Rhetorical question; I'll stop now.) 
That's what listening to Evanescence's new album, The Open Door, is like. 
Normal phrasing doesn't exist for frontwoman Amy Lee. She stretches words from measure to measure with a glottal pout that's the Goth-rock equivalent of a news anchor's Serious Voice. It's the sound of a foundering songwriter who knows only one way to convey the angst that made her famous. One veryyyy tedious waaaay. 
Evanescence rode the end of the nu-metal wave to multiplatinum success with 2003's Fallen. (The "nu" stands for "turn the distortion so high and riff on such low notes that the guitar becomes a guh-guh-guh beat instead of a source of chords and melody.) Lee showed on the smash Bring Me to Life that mixing Linkin Park and Tori Amos isn't nearly as horrible an idea as it sounds. 
The Open Door is a bigger, louder version of Fallen - minus the pop sense of former guitarist and co-writer Ben Moody. Lee almost succeeds in rewriting Bring Me to Life as the single Call Me When You're Sober. Otherwise there's not a three-chord chorus to be found, and the voice that occasionally went unadorned and without affectation is now an over-the-top diva's tool. 
The lugubrious singing wouldn't be so overwhelming if Lee had anything to say. But Open Door is full of lofty, vague sentiments that are hard to appreciate if you aren't a 16-year-old with charcoal-shaded eyes and a majority-black wardrobe. 
"Fear is only in our minds . . . and one sweet day/you're gonna drown in my lost pain," she sings on Sweet Sacrifice. Why is she hurting and afraid? Who knows. 
The Only One is no more specific: "Can't hold onto the fear that I'm lost without you." Goth code words abound - ashes, darkness, sacrifice, bleeding - but without a tether to reality they're nothing more than signifiers of an attitude. 
It's an attitude perfectly suited to that time in our lives when we're sure the world revolves around us. 
Lee writes for people who think some feelings are so huge they can only be conveyed through overblown cliches: "Shouldn't have let you/conquer me completely/now I can't let go of this dream/can't believe that I feel" (Good Enough). She serves up strident declarations of personal growth: "I won't be held down by who I used to be" (Weight of the World). She's a font of fortune cookie wisdom: "If you want to live, let live/if you want to go, let go" (Cloud Nine). 
She has stripped away all context and self-awareness from rock angst, turning it into pure teen melodrama. 
Thanks to disgraced writer James Frey, we all know how a memoir can explode into a million little fictional pieces. 
The visual artist has more wiggle room than a writer does in presenting the past. The assumption is that memory is interpretive, selective and manipulated by the artist's hand and vision. So it is with Virginia Beth Shields , whose installation at the Arts Center invokes her roots in South Carolina's Cherokee Foothills. Remnants is an homage to the women who worked as sharecroppers and in timber mills while living in grinding poverty, bearing and rearing children, cooking and cleaning while they eked out a below-subsistence living. 
Shields gives these women's lives dignity, even beauty, in her treatment. Three small houses are constructed as frames for large, backlit black-and-white photographs of interiors and exteriors of real houses that seem not much larger than these ersatz ones. Scattered around are mounds of seed cotton. Columns evoke plantation life, some wrapped with scraps of denim, calico and burlap. Nearby, an old iron bed is fitted with a mattress spilling straw, its smell a sensory element of the installation. On the nightstand, a book is stuffed with typed reminiscences of women's lives in the 1930s and 1940s, powerful testimonials to lives both simple and complicated. 
The mixed media work has a straightforward message without layers of metaphor. It's like those bronze statues honoring anonymous workers, soldiers and immigrants, cast in realistic poses. Much installation art can be so obscure, requiring codes to decipher it. Art should make us think and see in new ways, but it should not require a concordance. 
On the other hand, good art requires a certain level of technical competence and originality. The 14th annual All Florida Juried Exhibition, also at the Arts Center, is a disappointment. I don't know what Donald Kuspit , a distinguished critic and writer who juried the show, had to choose from, but this exhibition does not reflect the depth of talent working in Florida right now. It has the feel of a members' show in which everyone is guaranteed a place on the wall  -  an important and vital opportunity that the Arts Center should and does offer twice a year. This is billed as a more exclusive invitational. 
Kuspit makes clear in his juror's statement his bias toward representational art, which he believes is far more vital these days. He also endorses art that has, as he says, human interest. It's a good thing to recognize artists who paint a scene without irony or angst, to value sincerity rather than deride it as sentimentality. Seeing that philosophy validated and embodied is probably the best that can be said about this show overall. 
Bridging these two exhibitions, philosophically and physically, is "Tomorrow's Drawing Today," an eccentric, eclectic and gratifying show curated by Sandy Besser , a well-known collector who lives in Santa Fe, N.M. 
Like Kuspit, Besser is drawn to the figurative (excuse the pun). He pushes the definition of drawing beyond the conventional idea of graphite or chalk on paper, used in the past to create studies for finished work in paint or stone. 
Some of the drawings have the look of a study, though, such as Bart Johnson's  Tiepolo Honey, with its seemingly unrelated, bizarre figures, such as Bosch encountering Dr. Seuss. And there are other examples of fantastical characters from other artists, part of a movement in contemporary drawing that combines whimsy with nightmare. 
Also represented is another continuing trend, born in the 20th century, of art that is deliberately crude technically, a rejection of slickness, such as Richard Kurtz's  boxers drawn on NRA target practice paper and Lauren Ari's  Time for Tigers Timbre, which uses a dictionary page as a canvas, and clay figures to punctuate the drawings. 
Works such as these will probably elicit the inevitable comment from some viewers about their "looking like something my grandchildren would do." Well, okay, but consider what the artist is trying to convey with this purposefully simple style, used tongue-in-cheek, even cynically. 
Traditionalists will find easy-on-the-eyes beauty here, too, in Tamie Beldue's  contemplative nude and Alice Leora Briggs'  Annunciation II, a drawing incised on a clay tablet like an etching. 
There are other fine examples of drawing and all its possibilities, but the standout is Craig Atteberry's  exquisite, minute head of a man centered on a large sheet of handmade paper. It's precious and extravagant. 
Katie Couric's debut Tuesday anchoring the CBS Evening News was a record-setting affair, drawing more than 13.5-million viewers, twice as many as watched the newscasts on NBC and ABC, and the largest audience for an evening newscast on the Tiffany Network since its coverage of the Winter Olympics in 1998. 
But that was no surprise to Sherry Sacino, a St. Petersburg resident who participated in the town hall meeting Couric held in July at the offices of local affiliate WTSP-Ch. 10. 
"They have created a different type of broadcast as truly demanded by those who came to speak, like me," Sacino, president of the Youth Empowerment Alliance nonprofit and wife of Sacino's Formalwear CEO Ron Sacino, wrote in an e-mail to the St. Petersburg Times. "CBS heard what we have to say and implemented it." 
Sacino joined about 100 other people in speaking with Couric over two hours about TV news. They talked about hating explicit details or bloody footage and wanting to see more than the usual pundits featured on cable; more fresh, down-to-earth voices; and more in-depth reporting instead of superficial news roundups. 
Sacino praised the newscast's opening stories - a report by correspondent Lara Logan from Afghanistan, a report on President Bush's speech Tuesday about terrorism and a short interview with New York Times Middle East columnist Thomas Friedman - as a three-part dissection of the war on terrorism. 
She also hailed the show's "Free Speech" commentary segment featuring Super Size Me director Morgan Spurlock and a lengthy feature story by correspondent Steve Hartman about a Midwesterner building sympathy for orphans in the Third World by getting high school artists in America to paint their portraits. 
Tampa Bay area viewers may have agreed with her; more than 218,000 local households watched Couric's debut, or about 22 percent of those watching TV, according to figures provided by WTSP. CBS's newscast won the time period in this market, with NBC drawing 12 percent of those watching TV, ABC 5 percent and the local newscast on Fox station WTVT-Ch. 13 nearly 6 percent, a WTSP spokesman said. 
It's difficult to know how many viewers were drawn by curiosity, and the nation's TV critics delivered a more mixed verdict. According to an analysis of 43 commentaries by the Project for Excellence in Journalism, 79 percent delivered either mixed or mostly negative reviews (the St. Petersburg Times review, which was mixed, was included).

</file>

<file= AmE06_C05>

Clint Eastwood just keeps getting better. At 76, his skill for directing films that mine the human experience for truth and emotion continues to astound.
He seemed at the top of his game in 2003 when he made Mystic River, then reached a new peak the following year with the emotionally wrenching Million Dollar Baby. Who would have thought he could best himself with an epic and unflinching film about World War II, especially after so many noteworthy war movies already have been made?
But with Flags of Our Fathers, we undeniably pledge our audience allegiance. When it seemed that everything had already been said about the Greatest Generation, along comes Eastwood with a compelling and eloquent examination of the nature of heroism. It is one of the year's best films and perhaps the finest modern filmabout World War II.
The story built around the battle of Iwo Jima and the political fallout from that epic clash between the USA and Japan is fascinating and morally complex. It's hard to imagine audiences failing to be riveted by the unrelenting combat sequences. The battle scenes are graphically depicted but never gratuitous. At the same time, the story looks at life during wartime, from several angles.
Flags starts with the iconic image of the famous photo in which six exhausted servicemen hoist the American flag five days into a battle on Iwo Jima that raged on for more than a month. The story built around this seminal photo is eloquently written by Paul Haggis (Crash) and Bill Broyles Jr. (Cast Away).
The focus is on the three surviving soldiers of the six -- played with sensitivity and intelligence by Ryan Phillippe, Jesse Bradford and Ryan Beach -- tapped by military and government officials and trotted around on a nationwide tour as the ultimate symbols of courageous warriors. The intent behind honoring this trio was to inspire patriotic fervor and persuade Americans to buy war bonds. Each man copes differently with the dawning reality that he is being manipulated. Beach is brilliant as a Native American soldier who laid his life on the line but still must endure racism. His character's arc from proud fighter to lost soul is heartbreaking.
The story is told, years later, to Phillippe's adult son (Tom McCarthy) by photographer Joe Rosenthal (Ned Eisenberg), who took the Pulitzer Prize-winning image. The lives of all three men are marked by their experience. The glimpse we get of the relationship between Phillippe's character as an older man and his son is achingly poignant.
The film is patriotic in the truest sense: honoring those who risked their lives in battle and questioning the motives of those in power who sought to use the soldiers as political pawns.
Though the film respects the heroes it depicts, it also takes a cynical look at the selling of war to the American people. Flags of Our Fathers is the rare action film that is superbly acted, hauntingly powerful and deeply insightful.
Blah humbug.
The more dully formulaic Christmas movies that TV produces, the more you wish the medium would adopt a very literal reading of Silent Night. If straining-to-be-inspirational, card-shop stocking fillers such as A Perfect Day are the best TV can do, then really, leave us to contemplate the meaning of the season in peace.
As if convinced the holiday abhors originality, TV builds most of its Christmas movies around two popular themes, told in a thousand variants. Year after year, we either get mean guys who don't realize how bad it is to be mean (A Christmas Carol), or nice guys who don't realize how good it is to be nice (It's a Wonderful Life).
For this sanctimonious follow-up to his The Christmas Box, writer Richard Paul Evans blends the two. Over two teeth-ache-inducing hours, a nice-guy-gone-suddenly-bad is reformed by a fallen angel who warns him the end is near.
Yeah, well not near enough.
Would that Perfect Day were perfectly awful. Movies like that, at least, tend to have some energy, even if it is of the camp/comic variety. This artificially sweetened fruitcake just lies there, as unappetizing and unwelcome as its inedible equivalent.
As the movie plods its way toward its totally nonsensical final twist, the main emotion it provokes is one of pity for star Rob Lowe as a short-sighted best-selling author. True, Lowe isn't exactly working at his best, but it couldn't have been easy to play a character whose only interesting trait is his certainty that he's about to die.
Worse than its treatment of Lowe, however, is the way the movie deadens one of TV's liveliest actors, Paget Brewster. She has elevated bad material before, but even Brewster can't rescue a role that asks her to instantly, inexplicably segue from grating, perky support to shrewish attack.
Bad enough she has to tell her just-fired husband "when one door closes another one opens," but to have to follow that groaner with "this whole thing could be a blessing in disguise" is really adding insult to actor injury.
But then, the entire script is one huge sugar-cube collection of bad lines and unconvincing characters, from Frances Conroy's all- knowing, all-loving agent to Christopher Lloyd's harbinger of doom.
And why exactly is Lowe's writer doomed, by the way? For momentarily taking too much pleasure in success? For spending a few weeks away from home working? For longing to see his book turned into a feature film rather than a TV movie? If those were crimes punishable by death, we'd have no authors left.
The real crime, of course, is television's insistence on turning Christmas into the season of sap.
It is possible, after all, to do a holiday movie that is heartfelt and even sentimental without making people feel as if they've entered some alternate, goo-filled universe.
We've seen better before (think The Gathering or Truman Capote's A Christmas Memory), and surely we'll see better someday again.
That day can't come too soon.
Charles Addams, the great creepy cartoonist and creator of the lovably fiendish Addams Family, was once asked by a reporter, "Are people disappointed when they meet you?"
"I suppose they are," Addams replied. "Aren't you?
To a biographer taking on a popular artist whose art may be more intriguing than his life, that's both a warning and challenge.
To his famous friends, who included Alfred Hitchcock and James Thurber, Addams was anything but disappointing. Charming, witty, but in public, shy.
Charles Addams: A Cartoonist's Life by Linda H. Davis will delight those interested in literary gossip and intrigue at The New Yorker. But the book has a tough act to follow: Addams' own cartoons (38 are included in the book).
Ultimately, what's of lasting interest are the cartoons, more than the cartoonist, who died in 1988.
Davis writes with flair, has done extensive, footnoted research and had the cooperation of Addams' third wife and widow who insisted that the biographer "put every wart in the book and ... not worry about her feelings."
In detail, Davis documents Addams' affairs, financial and romantic, including a second wife who he believed tried to kill him.
But Davis is less sure of how much of the cartoonist's life -- his fascination with cemeteries, crossbows and freak shows -- was legitimate and how much was a show for his fans.
The book details how much Addams loved women, and they loved him. What Davis calls Addams' "harem" included Jackie Kennedy, Greta Garbo, Joan Fontaine and Megan Marshack, who's more famous for being in the company of an undressed Nelson Rockefeller when he died.
Among the stories Davis tells is a small dinner party Addams threw to introduce Garbo and Kennedy. With vodka flowing freely, Garbo was over-served.
"Mister Addams," she kept saying in her formal way. "I must leave. I am intoxicated."
"Is she kind of stewed?" Kennedy asked Addams in her whisper.
Later, Addams told a friend, "Well, she was, and so she left before dinner."
He also told a friend, without elaborating, that Kennedy had told him how she felt during the assassination of her husband. Davis reports he told another friend, "Do you know she had his brains in her lap?"
The book describes how Addams slowly and, not easily, developed his cartoon family at the suggestion of The New Yorker's founder Harold Ross, "who thought there should be more characters in the delicious house."
Some names were invented for a line of dolls and the 1964 TV show. Addams came up with Morticia while looking in the telephone book for morticians. Young Pugsley was named for a stream in the Bronx. Addams' first choice, Pubert, was rejected by the dollmaker because it sounded dirty.
On television, The Addams Family, a softer version of the cartoons, lasted only two years but lived on in reruns. It made Addams more famous and richer than ever, but it strained his relationship with the magazine that had nurtured him.
The New Yorker's legendary editor William Shawn thought that "vulgar Hollywood had compromised Addams' evils," and stopped printing his drawings of Morticia, Gomez and the kids.
Only after Shawn's death did the magazine lift its ban, but by then, Davis writes, Addams' heart was no longer in it.
Addams once said of Jackie Kennedy: "One minute she is very sweet and tender, and the next minute she is an iceberg. She may be the moodiest woman I've ever met. Don't ask me what the real Jackie Kennedy is like because I really haven't the faintest idea."
Despite Davis' valiant efforts, the real Charles Addams may remain unknowable -- unlike his cartoons.
Excerpt
Though Jackie (Kennedy) was clearly fond of Addams, she never regarded him as husband material. "Well, I couldn't get married to you," she told him. "What would we talk about at the end of the day - - cartoons?" The putdown, which Addams repeated...crushed him. And when Addams referred to the late president as "Jack," she corrected him. "Don't call him 'Jack.' Call him 'the President.'"
Iranian students and others, some of whom we would now call "Islamo-fascists," took 66 American Embassy personnel hostage and held most of them for a terrifying 444 days. All were released, no occupying armies were deployed and no IEDs were detonated.

But for contemporary historian Mark Bowden, the standoff is indeed an object that is larger than it at first appears. It's a tale, argues the author of Black Hawk Down and Killing Pablo, of fear, cruelty, heroism and something more:
"The first battle in America's war against militant Islam, a conflict that would eventually engage the entire world."
Guests of the Ayatollah is at heart a thriller. Students, some of them fundamentalist Muslim and others left-wing and secular, occupy the American Embassy on Nov. 4, 1979. What was planned as a sit-in to call attention to Iran's supposed grievances -- the deposed shah had recently been admitted to the USA for medical treatment, for example -- spirals out of control.
Americans are beaten, in some cases tortured, and led to believe they would be executed. The most appealing characters are Americans who keep their cool and get in a few licks of their own.
The chapters on an aborted attempt to rescue the hostages by helicopters, and the behind-the-scenes machinations by the Carter administration to make it happen, are among the most compelling. The mission was scuttled because of sandstorms and equipment failure, and eight soldiers died in a fiery collision as the rescue team fled its Iranian staging area.
The details speak volumes. When he learns of the failure, White House chief of staff Hamilton Jordan rushes into the president's private bathroom and becomes ill.
But Bowden's big-picture analysis comes up short. The "glorious Islamist revolution in Iran," he assures readers, will wind up as "little more than a footnote," a "despised, corrupt and ineffectual religious dictatorship." Religious "terrorism," he is certain, is "in its death throes" in Iran.
Really?

</file>

<file= AmE06_C06>

"Perhaps every generation believes that it has reached a turning point in history, but our problems seem particularly intractable and our future increasingly uncertain." This cheery observation is the first sentence of The Great Transformation: The Beginnings of Our Religious Traditions by British historian/theologian Karen Armstrong. 
Armstrong, who has written numerous books on various religious topics including Islam and the rise of fundamentalism in the East and West, examines in her latest book the period of human history between 1600 B.C. and 200 B.C. This period (at least the portion from 800 B.C. forward) was described as "the Axial Age" by the German philosopher Karl Jaspers. 
According to Jaspers, it was during this period of time that the fundamental conceptions that underlie modern civilization came in four separate regions and gave rise to Confucianism and Taoism in China, Hinduism and Buddhism in India, monotheism in Israel and philosophical rationalism in Greece. 
The word axial comes from the German word "achse," which means "axis" or "to pivot on an axis." The Axial Age produced what Armstrong describes as the "axial sages" such as Confucius, Buddha, the Old Testament prophets, Plato and Aristotle, among others. According to Armstrong, rabbinical Judaism, Islam and Christianity are "the latter day flowerings of the Axial Age." To greatly oversimplify, this age was characterized by certain "axial moments" in which each of these regions was forced by political turbulence or other extreme widespread cultural anxiety to confront a response of "militant piety" (or just plain militant behavior) in the culture. This militant piety tended to compress complexity and reality into oversimplified categories of good and evil. The response of the axial sages was to turn away from religious formalism, tone down the violent rhetoric in the writings and rituals, promote social justice and urge self-examination and introspection. 
Armstrong takes us through each stage of this Axial Age from an introduction to the pastoralists of the steppes of southern Russia, who called themselves the Aryans (not to be confused with the Germans) and who later settled in India, to the rise of rabbinical Judaism in Israel. Along the way, Armstrong offers numerous fascinating observations such as her interpretation of Yahweh's cryptic response ("I am what am.") to Moses' otherwise sensible question, "Who are you?" "This enigmatic phrase was a Hebrew idiom of ... Mind your own business!" Armstrong writes. "In the ancient world, to know someone's name meant that you had power over him. God was not to be controlled and manipulated in this way." Armstrong makes clear that the Axial Age had a profound impact on our modern religious thinking. Despite the fact that none of these "axial peoples" had the foggiest notion that the others existed, all four regions produced their own versions of the Golden Rule long before it was articulated by Jesus. And yet, apart from the Israelites, none of these axial reformers was particularly religious. 
Buddha and Confucius taught that the transcendent was to be found within. The Greek philosophers, for the most part, were more concerned with science and politics. Indeed, Buddha found speculation about Creation and/or God as "not useful" and likened such inquiry to a wounded man refusing medical treatment until he found out the name of the man who shot him with the arrow and what village he was from. 
In the final chapter, "The Way Forward," Armstrong turns to a discussion of Islam, which is a recurrent subject of her work. She points out that, contrary to popular belief, Islam is a religion of ethics and peace. According to her, the basic message of the Koran is "a command of practical compassion" which requires compassion for the poor and treating all people, including "the people of an earlier revelation" with dignity and respect. 
She also states that the much bandied-about word jihad does not mean "holy war" as the misinformed in the East and West believe. It means "struggle." The Koran contains violent imagery, as does the Bible. And yet, Armstrong points out that although the Koran permits violence as a response to a violent provocation, the concept of jihad prefers negotiations over war. And in the case of war, strict rules of engagement apply: A pre-emptive strike is not allowed, civilians are not to be slaughtered and the response must be proportionate to the provocation. 
Further, jihad requires that the struggle be maintained by negotiation once hostilities cease. While this is fascinating stuff, it hardly comforts one to know that we in the West are not alone in misinterpreting Scripture. 
It is clear that Armstrong believes that we are confronted by an axial moment in human history. The world is a smaller, more dangerous place. Our environment is threatened due to our viewing it purely as a resource and not as something "holy." A militant piety is in the ascendant mode here and abroad. 
In the end, Armstrong urges a return to the values of our Axial forebears and their common articulation of the Golden Rule as the lodestar. Her test is simple: "If people's beliefs - secular or religious - make them belligerent, intolerant and unkind, they are not `skillful,'" she says, using Buddhist terminology. 
"If, however, their convictions require them to act compassionately and to honor the stranger, then they are good, helpful and sound." Suffice it to say The Great Transformation is a lot to unpack. Armstrong collapses a breathtaking amount of human history into 399 pages. The narrative is leavened with 25 maps, approximately 800 or so footnotes, a glossary and a bibliography. However, despite its many pleasures and insights, I could not help but detect a certain whiff of condescension in her writing style which I occasionally found distracting. Armstrong knows more about this subject than pretty much anybody, and she is not afraid to let you know it. 
No matter. This is a sober and penetrating analysis of a critical subject. Armstrong has much in common with the Old Testament prophets she so obviously admires. In an earlier book, The Battle for God, she sounded the alarm about Islamic fundamentalism and foreshadowed, if not predicted, the militant piety culminating in the tragic events of the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks. In The Great Transformation, Armstrong, like Amos and Jeremiah before her, has sounded the alarm again. 
Author Angela Thomas' book When Wallflowers Dance is written for women. Or to be more specific, for women who have (through no real fault of their own) become "un-women." The un-woman usually begins life as a wallflower, standing on the sidelines at the dance of life. Not wanting to draw attention to herself, she constantly struggles to avoid the pain of her unhappy, unfulfilled existence. The un-woman hides. She works to blend in. And she keeps everyone out, including God. 
Early in the book, Thomas describes her journey into unwomanhood. She grew up in a solid, if somewhat dysfunctional, family where there was always plenty to eat and church attendance was mandatory. She was very naive, sheltered and trusting, and got energy from making other people happy. 
Thomas' need to please people wore her out, and she eventually came to realize that you can never make anybody happy. Major burnout followed, topped off by a divorce after four children and 14 years of marriage. 
Adding up the years and events of her existence, she looked back over a life of pride, pretense, stress, lies, worry, doubt and fear that led her to become the un-woman who just wanted to go through the motions of life while watching the world go by. But she became determined to change that. 
If you've ever experienced feelings like Thomas', and you aren't content with staying that way, When Wallflowers Dance will uplift and encourage you to not just live with God, but step off the sidelines and onto the dance floor. The difference between living and dancing, Thomas says, is spiritual maturity. 
It's a choice you have to make by accepting God's invitation to dance; He'll never force you. 
The subtitle of this book is "Becoming a Woman of Righteous Confidence," and Thomas works very hard to lead the reader toward that end. She first offers to take you by the hand, provides a heartfelt prayer for you to read, and then uses her life lessons, or "hard knocks" as some would call them, to help you improve whatever situation you are facing. 
One of the f irst things Thomas asks the overextended and worn-out un-women to do is to slow down their bodies so their souls can catch up. In our busy world it seems almost crazy to think we can slow down at all, but with God-based reasoning, it should become clear to most readers that what Thomas is saying makes sense. How can we experience healing and find God's divine plan for our life if we won't stay still and listen long enough to hear what He's saying? 
And no, slowing down our body does not mean shirking the commitments we have to our families, jobs and general well-being. It's more a matter of working to store up and replenish our inner being so we can stop feeling empty or tired because we've taken on activities or responsibilities that are beyond our reasonable limits. Using her own slowingdown experience as a guide, Thomas outlines her simple plan to help us get headed in the right direction. First and foremost, she urges us to continue with our mandatory commitments and to complete prior obligations. Then make it your goal to stop taking on extra responsibilities for the length of time you determine will be sufficient for restoration. 
If friends and family look at you strangely at first, make sure to explain the reasoning behind what you're doing and stand your ground. But don't allow the slowing-down process to become a time for distancing yourself from those around you. And don't use it as an excuse for becoming self-absorbed, egotistical or selfish. Use the time wisely by becoming more dependent on God, who gives us permission to do what we need to do to restore the health of our souls. 
Throughout the book, the author discusses many aspects of stepping out of the darkness and into a light-filled life of conviction and joy. Her suggestions include living intentionally and having a purposeful life. Have a plan. Call on good friends for strength and comfort, restore your home and body without overdoing it physically, keep a clear conscience and choose victory over your thoughts. And never, ever be afraid to ask God for what you want for your life. 
Thomas also asks you to realize how beautiful you are to God (who did create you, after all), to enjoy God's gifts, to love your family well, to continually find time to pray and to find time to laugh whenever you can. 
When Wallflowers Dance isn't a one-size-fits-all antidote for every woman, and there are probably varying degrees of un-womanhood. But the book offers a wealth of Bible-based ideas from the author's own experiences to help you learn to dance with God - but let Him lead. 

Prince of Persia has been a fail-safe title for Ubisoft and its latest offering, The Two Thrones, lives up to its predecessors. 
I thoroughly enjoyed the game play. Some of the fight sequences are just amazing. The environment changes so drastically that you keep playing just to see what's next. But the most appealing part of this game to me is the storyline. Ubisoft has hung its hat on creative storylines and this time they've outdone themselves. After battling through the Sands of Time, the previous Prince of Persia, the prince returns to Babylon expecting peace. What?! Babylon peaceful? 
OK, I know that was a stretch, but the real twist to this game is that you play the role of the good prince and his evil dark side. Their fighting styles, their purposes and their methods are completely different. Trying to master both styles of fighting keeps the game fresh and original.

</file>

<file= AmE06_C07>

She is not among the 20 figures in Florine Stettheimer's acidic and well-populated 1942-44 group portrait, ''The Cathedrals of Art,'' which includes the grand wizard Alfred Stieglitz and Juliana Force, who oversaw the Whitney Studio Club -- an early version of the Whitney Museum -- where many of the artists Mrs. Halpert would represent got their first exposure. (One wonders if the combination of Mrs. Halpert's being female and Jewish was a factor in her absence.) Mrs. Halpert and her artists were largely swept aside by the rise of Abstract Expressionism and Pop. Her name rarely comes up in interviews with dealers like Betty Parsons, who opened galleries in the '40s but were often the same age as Mrs. Halpert.
Over the course of her career Mrs. Halpert exhibited and sold the work of Davis, Sheeler, Yasuo Kuniyoshi, Max Weber, William and Marguerite Zorach, Peggy Bacon, Niles Spencer, Ben Shahn and Jack Levine. She had fingers in numerous other American art pies: the rise of American folk art, the interior design of Radio City Music Hall (she introduced Donald Deskey to the Rockefellers through her loyal client Abby Aldrich Rockefeller), the rediscovery of the 19th-century still life painter William Harnett, the founding of the Museum of Modern Art.
Mrs. Pollock portrays her as indefatigable, always on the lookout for a new angle when it came to exhibiting, promoting or selling art. After Alain Locke's book ''The Negro in Art'' came out in 1940, Mrs. Halpert proposed organizing a show based on it. ''American Negro Art,'' which opened late in 1941, included Jacob Lawrence's landmark ''Migration Series,'' 60 small terse paintings about the exodus of black labor to the North.
She browbeat the Museum of Modern Art and the Washington collector Duncan Phillips into each buying half of the work (for $1,000 each). It was immediately sent on a national tour, and Mrs. Halpert represented Lawrence for the next 20 years.
Mrs. Halpert's obscurity may reflect that she discovered very few artists, and none with the implicit glamour of a Georgia O'Keeffe or a Jackson Pollock. Those who didn't come from the Whitney Club were inherited from Stieglitz, at one point or another, including Sheeler, Marsden Hartley (briefly), O'Keeffe (briefly and tempestuously), John Marin and Arthur Dove.
Another factor in Mrs. Halpert's obscurity may be her nearly exclusive concentration on American art, specifically to the politicized American Scene variety that went quickly out of fashion after 1950. With a fervor that can sometimes seem opportunistic, she argued that if American artists got more respect (and sales), they wouldn't be tempted to adopt European-isms. Conveniently she overlooked Davis's fruitful and prolonged assimilation of Cubism.
In the retelling of Mrs. Halpert's story, Ms. Pollock relies heavily on the dealer's 813-page oral history in the Archive of American Art and her gallery's extensive files (but doesn't include a chronology of exhibitions, which would have been fascinating to read and helpful to scholars). This creates some gullible-sounding paraphrases: ''Edith would always believe art was for everyone, whether rich or poor, educated or not.'' Or: ''Edith refused to be discouraged. She kept fighting and believing in the American art cause.''
The narrative contains too many blow-by-blow accounts of sales, exhibition organizing and tussles with collectors, artists and museum curators. Still, it also provides vivid doses of the relentless day-to-day will to self-creation that is essential to having an interesting art gallery, even in flush times like the present.
Ms. Pollock makes passing mention of Mrs. Halpert's stubbornness and need for control, but it is only at the end of the book, when she can rely on a perceptive interview with Charles Alan, who joined the gallery in the late 1940s, that her subject's difficult personality comes into sharp focus. Mr. Alan, who took the job with the understanding that Mrs. Halpert would retire in 1950, lived in an apartment above hers (and above the gallery) on 51st Street and sometimes served as an escort. In 1952 he left to form his own gallery, taking with him the sculptor William King, the last of Mrs. Halpert's rare discoveries.
An exhibition of Mr. King's early work now at the Alexandre Gallery on East 57th Street includes a wonderful portrait bust of Mrs. Halpert in ceramic, her hair and features delineated in blue atop off-white glaze. A sketchy form of Delftware, the piece dates from 1959. It shows her looking beautiful, blousy and slightly inebriated, but imperious just the same.
The end is nigh in ''Children of Men,'' the superbly directed political thriller by Alfonso Cuaron about a nervously plausible future. It's 2027, and the human race is approaching the terminus of its long goodbye. Cities across the globe are in flames, and the ''siege of Seattle'' has entered Day 1,000. In a permanent war zone called Britain, smoke pours into the air as illegal immigrants are swept into detainment camps. It's apocalypse right here, right now -- the end of the world as we knew and loved it, if not nearly enough.
Based in broad outline on the 1992 dystopian novel by P. D. James about a world suffering from global infertility -- and written with a nod to Orwell by Mr. Cuaron and his writing partner Timothy J. Sexton along with David Arata, Mark Fergus and Hawk Ostby -- ''Children of Men'' pictures a world that looks a lot like our own, but darker, grimmer and more frighteningly, violently precarious. It imagines a world drained of hope and defined by terror in which bombs regularly explode in cafes crowded with men and women on their way to work. It imagines the unthinkable: What if instead of containing Iraq, the world has become Iraq, a universal battleground of military control, security zones, refugee camps and warring tribal identities?
Merry Christmas! Seriously. ''Children of Men'' may be something of a bummer, but it's the kind of glorious bummer that lifts you to the rafters, transporting you with the greatness of its filmmaking. Like Clint Eastwood's ''Letters From Iwo Jima,'' another new film that holds up a mirror to these times, Mr. Cuaron's speculative fiction is a gratifying sign that big studios are still occasionally in the business of making ambitious, intelligent work that speaks to adults. And much like Mr. Eastwood's most recent war movie, much like the best genre films of Hollywood history, ''Children of Men'' doesn't announce its themes from a bully pulpit, with a megaphone in hand and Oscar in mind, but through the beauty of its form.
It may seem strange, even misplaced to talk of beauty given the horror of the film's explosive opening. For Theo, the emotionally, physically enervated employee of the Ministry of Energy played without a shred of actorly egotism by Clive Owen, the day begins with a cup of coffee, an ear-shattering explosion and a screaming woman holding her severed arm. The Mexican-born Mr. Cuaron, whose previous credits include the children's films ''A Little Princess'' (1995) and ''Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban'' (2004), as well as the supremely sexy road movie ''Y Tu Mama Tambien'' (2001), has always had a dark streak. But nothing in his resume prepares you for the shocking realism of this explosion, which proves all the more terrible because here it is also so very commonplace.
Britain, it emerges, is in permanent lockdown. As the specter of humanity's end looms, the world has been torn apart by sectarian violence. Britain has closed its borders (the Chunnel too), turning illegal aliens into Public Enemy No. 1. Theo and the other gray men and women adrift in London don't seem to notice much.
Everywhere there are signs and warnings, surveillance cameras and security patrols. ''The world has collapsed,'' a public service announcement trumpets, ''only Britain soldiers on.'' The verb choice is horribly apt, since heavily armed soldiers are ubiquitous. They flank the streets and train platforms, guarding the pervasive metal cages crammed with a veritable Babel of humanity, illegal immigrants who have fled to Britain from hot spots, becoming refugees or ''fugees'' for short.
Among the fugees is Kee (Clare-Hope Ashitey), the linchpin of the story and its defiantly hopeful heart because she's pregnant, the first woman on earth to carry a child after 18 barren years. Theo meets Kee through his former lover, Julian (Julianne Moore), the leader of an underground cadre, the Fishes (Chiwetel Ejiofior and Charlie Hunnam, among others), who, having renounced violence if not their heavy guns or lugubrious rhetoric, are fighting for immigrant rights.
Avowedly apolitical, Theo agrees to help the Fishes deliver Kee into the ministering care of a shadowy, perhaps apocryphal utopian group, the Human Project. En route, though, the plan goes violently awry, forcing Theo, Kee and a Fish member and former midwife, Miriam (Pam Ferris), to go on the run, first by car and then by foot.
Where they eventually land is in a hell that looks chillingly similar to the Iraqi combat areas of newspaper reportage, television news and mostly uncensored documentaries. There are several heart-gripping set pieces before then, including a hugely unsettling ambush scene shot almost entirely from inside a car crammed with passengers.
The action is swift, ferocious, spectacularly choreographed, with bodies careening wildly amid a fusillade of bullets and flying glass. Yet what lingers isn't the technical virtuosity; it's that after the car screeches off, Mr. Cuaron's camera quietly lingers behind to show us two dead policemen, murdered in the name of an ideal and left like road kill. He forces us to look at the unspeakable and in doing so opens up a window onto the film's moral landscape.
''Children of Men'' has none of the hectoring qualities that tend to accompany good intentions in Hollywood. Most of the people doing the preaching turn out to be dreadfully, catastrophically misguided; everyone else seems to be holding on, like Theo's friend Jasper (Michael Caine, wonderful), a former political cartoonist who bides his time with laughter and a lot of homegrown weed while listening to Beatles covers and rap. Still others, like Theo's wealthy cousin, Nigel (Danny Huston, equally fine), who's stashing away masterpieces like Michelangelo's ''David'' for safekeeping in his private museum while Rome, New York and probably Guernica burn, can only smile as they swill another glass of wine. Hope isn't the only thing that floats, as a song on the soundtrack reminds us.
The writer Kurt Andersen observed not long ago that we Americans are in an apocalyptic frame of mind. Mr. Andersen thinks that the latest in apocalypticism partly owes something to the aging baby boomers confronting their own impending doom, Sept. 11 and global warming notwithstanding. That's one way to look at it, though the recent elections suggest that more than a few of those boomers are looking past their own reflection out at the world. Working with his cinematographer Emmanuel Lubezki, Mr. Cuaron manufactures war zones of extraordinary plausibility in this film, but equally amazing is how, through a carbon-blue palette, handheld camerawork and the sag of a man's shoulders, he conjures the hopelessness and the despair that I imagine many of us feel when we wake up to news of another fatal car bombing in Iraq.
There are, Mr. Cuaron suggests in ''Children of Men,'' different ways of waking up. You can either wake up and close your ears and eyes, or like Theo you can wake up until all your senses are roaring. Early in the film Theo and the restlessly moving camera seem very much apart, as Mr. Cuaron keeps a distance from the characters.
Every so often the camera pointedly drifts away from Theo, as it does with the dead policemen, to show us a weeping old woman locked in a cage or animals burning on pyres. In time, though, the camera comes closer to Theo as he opens his eyes -- to a kitten crawling up his leg, to trees rustling in the wind -- until, in one of the most astonishing scenes of battle I've ever seen on film, it is running alongside him,trying to keep pace with a man who has finally found a reason to keep going.

</file>

<file= AmE06_C08>

The verdict: A bon bon with a melancholy aftertaste.
The prettiest movie of the year so far, "Marie Antoinette" is also one of the most thrillingly original.
Sofia Coppola follows up her Oscar-winning "Lost in Translation" with a film that has a similarly rigorous intelligence and sense of dislocation.
For underneath its gilded artifice and cornucopia of pastries and court protocol is the very human story of someone as flummoxed by her circumstances as Bill Murray was in "Translation's" Japan. And he didn't have to worry about rioting peasants who wanted his head.
Folderol and fancy gowns aside, what you're watching is a tragedy.
Marie (Kirsten Dunst) is all of 14 when she's shipped off to France by her mother, the queen of Austria, to marry the Dauphin, Louis XVI (Jason Schwartzman). The world she once knew vanishes as soon as she crosses the French border. "Now you must say farewell to your party and leave all Austria behind," she's told by one of her new keepers, the Comtesse de Noailles (a severe Judy Davis with collarbones that could rip open a FedEx package).
She means it. Not only is Marie completely stripped, but her beloved pug, Mops, won't be coming to Versailles, either. In a wonderful throwaway moment, Marie's face crinkles up like any adolescent who's had her pet doggie taken away.
Upon her arrival, the current ruler, King Louis XV (a randy Rip Torn), asks a courtier about her bosom. His son, however, seems more interested in rejoining his hunting party. Still, in short order, she and Louis XVI are married. Seven years later, the marriage is --- finally --- consummated.
Initially, Marie's put off by the servants beyond counting and the dozen or so courtiers gathered in her bedroom every morning before she's even out of bed. And then ... she spoils before our very eyes. We see her grow used to the incessant pampering --- how she comes to like it and eventually demand it. Coppola skillfully charts her heroine's transformation from an innocent and overwhelmed girl to a woman comfortable in her authority and accustomed to having her every whim obeyed.
She even gets a new pug.
The finery and foolishness are, the film hints, also one way to cope with a life lived entirely in public. Louis and Marie may be the only two at the breakfast table --- typically festooned with pheasants or pyramids of prawns --- but behind them, the members of the court whisper and mill about incessantly. At Petit Trianon, her rustic retreat, she and her friends may play at pretend dairy maids, but they're surrounded by retainers awaiting their every order and royal vendors who show them the latest in shoes while "I Want Candy" is heard on the soundtrack.
Coppola mixes contemporary music (Gang of Four, the Cure, New Order, the Strokes) with traditional harpsichords and lutes. Versailles, she suggests, wasn't all that much different from a posh private academy --- Mean Girls in powdered wigs. As the new kid, Marie is initially treated badly. Catty comments about Austrian apple strudel and the like. Says one aristocrat, arching her eyebrow, "I think she's delightful. She looks like a little piece of cake."
"Marie Antoinette" is particularly concerned with female matters --- and troubles. Her sexless marriage isn't just a matter of court gossip, it's a matter of life and death. No heir, as her mother keeps reminding her in spiteful letters, perhaps no more queen of France.
The flaw in "Marie Antoinette" is that in achieving the Brechtian remove she desires, Coppola distances us from the characters in a manner more suitable, perhaps, to a satire than the hermetic complexities of this film. Marie's lamentable end hits us intellectually more than emotionally; in a sense, the movie is too smart for its own good.
It's a credit to the picture's tone and cast that the dazzling costumes and set designs, which are almost guaranteed Oscar nominations, never overwhelm the acting. Torn, Davis, Asia Argento as Louis XV's impudent royal mistress, and Steve Coogan as a loyal courtier are all strong.
Schwartzman delivers an exquisitely sly performance. He doesn't make Louis XVI a fool or a buffoon, but rather, distracted and somewhat obtuse. More than anything, he's simply "miscast" as the king of France --- or anywhere. At dinner, he stares at the food on his fork as if he's not quite sure where it goes.
Dunst carries the picture on her slim, gorgeously garbed shoulders, and she does it with style and a slightly poignant touch of a little girl lost. Marie is swallowed up by a society she can barely fathom, let alone lord over. She's in over her head (sorry), and the lavish jewels and other trappings are as much props as anything else --- things to put her at ease (at first) and then to perpetuate her head-girl status.
But her essential isolation remains, and Coppola emphasizes it throughout the film. In one stunning shot, Marie stands on a balcony at Versailles, and the camera pulls back and back and back until she looks like a prettily coifed paper doll silhouetted against the most massively elaborate dollhouse imaginable.
Her first morning at Versailles, as the women flock around and fuss over her, Marie mutters in some distress, "This is ridiculous," and the pointed response is, "This, Madame, is Versailles."
It is ridiculous, Coppola tells us, and it is Versailles. And it is, ultimately, all very sad.
A QUARTET OF QUALITY FILMS: Fall's early doldrums at the cinema are forgotten with these four major movies opening today, all drawing high marks from our critics.

he verdict: Short-comings notwithstanding, Louvre Atlanta's inaugural exhibitions deliver in bringing exceptional works of art from one of the world's greatest museums.
Even with three years of exhibitions, Louvre Atlanta, which opens Saturday at the High Museum, can hope to offer only a fraction of the great Paris museum's vast collection. So organizers have devised the series as a sort of tasting menu: a sampling of the Louvre's character and breadth that also tells the museum's history, from royals to revolution to republic.
This first course, so to speak, focuses on the collections built by the French kings and how they shaped the Louvre's core holdings. It uses an audio guide and labels to provide a depth of information.
For most folks, however, the art is the thing, and this first installment of Louvre Atlanta --- 115 drawings, sculptures and paintings --- is a mixed success. It stumbles with some puzzling choices, including what feels like a skimpy selection of paintings. Yet the quality of the paintings that are here is beyond impeccable, and the thrilling moments throughout the exhibit outweigh the disappointments. On balance, Louvre Atlanta's debut is not to be missed.
Unfortunately, the regiment of marble and bronze sculptures arrayed in the Anne Cox Chambers Wing lobby gets the show off to a disappointing start.
Yes, the portrait busts are lovely. Those depicting artists whose works are on view upstairs are particularly engaging, and lining them up facing out the window is a clever turning-the-tables conceit. But the rows of sculptures behind them lack any explanation of their importance or history, and without it they just seem to be filling up the room by default. (Which in a way they are, because the glass box can't be used for light-sensitive work like painting or drawing.)
Architect Renzo Piano intended the transparency as a way to entice visitors, but because of the reflections on the glass, you can barely see what's inside as you approach the building. The sculptures' Piano-designed pedestals, split into "legs" for transparency's sake, are distracting, and the way the pieces are lined up is rather odd. (One visiting critic thought the grouping was a conceptual piece.)
In contrast, the drawings exhibition on the second floor is everything it should be and more: abundant, exquisite and intelligently chosen to reflect variety in subject, style and artist. The low light and sometimes faint marks require your attention. You will be rewarded by discovering the many wonderful artists represented who are not household names, as well as getting up close and personal with some of the most revered old masters.
And personal it is: Drawings --- sketches, studies for paintings, exercises --- are the most intimate form of art-making, and most of these were not intended for public consumption. Neoclassicist Nicolas Poussin's ink and wash landscape drawings suggest a more romantic side, while Antoine Coypel's gridded drawings demonstrate the process of preparing an image for transfer to a wall for a mural.
Yet the subtlety and detail of these works reveal the artists' commitment to their craft and their pleasure in it. Although the woman in Charles Le Brun's study was likely an extra in the multi-figure painting "Massacre of the Innocents," he took care in limning, in an elegant, economical line, both her supplicating pose and the distress in her face.
The sculptures on the Chambers-wing skyway are far more engaging than what's in the lobby. Jean-Louis Lemoyne's portrait bust of Jules Hardouin-Mansart, architect of Versailles, is a marvel of skill and psychological acumen. The bewigged Hardouin-Mansart exudes the vaguely pompous confidence of a royal favorite. Gorgeous bronzes suggest the kings' predilections for antiquities, Baroque excess and copies of admired works they couldn't own, like Michelangelo's "Night" and "Day" from the Medici tomb in Florence, Italy.
Then comes the show's climax: masterworks by Raphael and Rembrandt facing each other across the room --- oh, and a Velasquez portrait on the adjacent wall, opposite Baroque Italian masters.
It's not the names, of course; it's the power of the paintings themselves. The humanism and confidence of the Renaissance is embodied in Raphael's portrait of his friend Castiglione, a poet and diplomat whose calm and steady gaze suggests a thoughtful man at peace with himself. Painted in looser strokes and bathed in burnished tones, Rembrandt's soulful "St. Matthew and the Angel" gives form not just to the interior process of thought and inspiration but also the wisdom and grace with which the artist endowed the paintings of his last years.
The exhibit's last gallery looks a bit empty, and the paintings are not of the caliber of those in the other gallery. It will fill up in June with four important 18th-century paintings. But that's not much consolation for visitors until then, especially those who arrive between Jan. 21 and March 3, when the second floor is closed to take down the drawings and install the decorative arts exhibit.
Despite its disappointments, the exhibit delivers on the promise of its basic premise. It is an armchair traveler's Louvre --- an opportunity, for instance, to see in one room masterpieces that would require a trek through the mother ship, and to view art with an intimacy not likely amid the distractions of sheer quantity at the Louvre.
In this spare environment, you can commune with great works of art --- and discover the difference between looking and seeing.

The verdict: Throwing a party as performance art.
You have to wonder what Amy Sedaris was like in high school. Was she a geek or a jock or a renegade chick? One senses that the ironic comic was always a chronicler of sorts --- most comfortable alone in the basement of her suburban home creating fantasy parties for invisible guests.
In this unusual, lavishly decorated and funny book about the art of becoming a domestic goddess, Sedaris --- sister of David --- riffs on the multitude of absurdities that surround our social rituals, while simultaneously offering genuinely sound advice.
In a tone that often resembles a whacked-out, hyped-up Martha Stewart, comedian-actress Sedaris ("Strangers With Candy," "Sex and the City") keeps you utterly off balance. In the middle of making suggestions about how to introduce dinner guests to one another, for instance, she urges readers to avoid comments like, "This is Barbara. She can't have children," or, "Matt's on mood stabilizers."

</file>

<file= AmE06_C09>

The television miniseries has long served to popularize historical tragedies for American audiences. In 1968, "The Rise and Fall of the Third Reich," on ABC, inaugurated the form; Alex Haley's renowned "Roots" came nine years later. "Holocaust," which starred Meryl Streep, appeared in 1978.
But in recent years the networks have begun to lose faith. When ABC televised "The Path to 9/11" in September, the controversial drama played to mixed - well, mixed everything.
With the networks newly chastened, then, it's not surprising that responsibility for event television has fallen to HBO, which continues to zig where others zag. "Tsunami: The Aftermath" is billed upfront as a "fictional drama" that is nonetheless "inspired by actual events" and "based on interviews and research." Presumably, this mealy preamble is designed to give the film authority with an audience that these days knocks back its news documentaries straight, no chaser. Led by Sheila Nevins since 1979, HBO's documentary division has come to provide a rubric under which the cable channel has shown its most incendiary and raunchy material.
Compared with the real documentaries, though, Tsunami doesn't stint on tonic, and it may even include pia colada mix. In spite of the research that went into it, it's a melodrama, with an ominous score, misty close-ups and strong elements of Jaws and Lost. By way of dialogue, the characters one by one survey the wreckage and whisper, horror-struck, "Jesus Christ."
Within the confines of this stylization - and the natural hurtling forward of a story we all know from the news - the performances are heroic and even lifelike. It's certainly a first- rate cast, one that includes Toni Collette, Sophie Okonedo and Hugh Bonneville. Tim Roth, as a jerky photojournalist, seems to get top billing; he's a favorite, apparently, and he's been out of the limelight for a while. (Indeed, the first line spoken to him in this movie is, "You got your job back." I like it when movies do that.)
But it's really Chiwetel Ejiofor's film. In an understated, slow- burning way, Ejiofor as Ian Carter, a tourist in Thailand and one of the survivors of the tidal wave, brings to the screen an ethical ferocity that the script alone doesn't express. Briefly put, Ian can't get his mind off his own family: first his wife and daughter, who are missing, and then, when his wife is found, his daughter. Periodically he evinces rote or guilty sympathy for others and slight curiosity about their suffering and the general situation of Asia, but - though he's called on for heroism over and over - in general he's impatient with his duties to other people. Who wouldn't be? He just wants to reunite his own family.
Ian's situation mirrors the film's extremely potent concern about just which people any of us care about in a disaster like the tsunami. As Nick, Roth is a journalist charged with finding out, almost exclusively, what's happening to the Westerners. He believes he has his first scoop when he finds that some of the dead are being burned by Buddhist monks. His Thai partner (Will Yun Lee) - whose name, Chai, Nick uses far too often, in the way of dialogue-poor scripts - tries to stop Nick from taking pictures at a crematory, on the grounds that posthumous incineration is a Thai custom, consistent with good health practices and expressive of the doctrine of reincarnation. Nick argues that it's not right for Westerners' bodies to be burned without first being identified and photographed.
And in the persuasive argument between Chai and Nick you get the sense that, in death, human lives develop very different values to different communities, and that those interpretive communities - those "families" - coalesce quite decisively. In fact, as soon as the Westerners were evacuated, it seems the United States developed more problems of its own, and the story of one of the deadliest natural disasters in recorded history, which killed around 230,000 people two years ago, started to fade from memory.
POSTCARDS FROM ED: Dispatches and Salvos From an American Iconoclast. By Edward Abbey. Edited by David Petersen with a foreword by Terry Tempest Williams. Milkweed Editions, 296 pp. $24.95.
ED Abbey wasn't born in the American West, but as awed immigrants to certain other mythic landscapes like to say, he got there as fast as he could. It was 1944 and Abbey was 17 when he found his geological soul mate in the Four Corners region of the desert Southwest. He stayed, working his way through a master's degree in philosophy at the University of New Mexico, and signed on as a seasonal ranger at Utah's Arches National Monument, from which experience he mined 1968's Desert Soltaire: A Season in the Wilderness. That book rooted him to his chosen place and established the lasting Abbey persona: prickly intelligence combined with fierce advocacy for the possibilities of innocent wonderment at the natural world.
In 1975 he published his best-known work of fiction, The Monkey Wrench Gang, about a group of friends whose response to environmental degradation is to spike timber, chop down billboards and blow up dams. He subsequently saw his literary reputation sideswiped by a boiling-point environmental movement that the novel either spawned or satirized, depending who you ask.
Before his death, in 1989, Abbey had published nine novels and 14 works of nonfiction and settled into a wild corner of the literary landscape lit by the adulation of Earth-First!ers and essayers of the outdoors.
But one gets the sense that Abbey was never entirely comfortable with the size of his corral. He had a classicist's disdain for the cultural detritus beloved by his crunchy fans - Bob Dylan and Susan Sontag notably - and it's tempting to think he kept harping on his unpopular anti-immigration ideas just so no one would confuse him with a hippie. He had a contrarian streak a mile wide.
"How could anything non-controversial be of intellectual interest to grown-ups?" he wrote to Vermont naturalist Edward Hoagland.
But Abbey had more than contrarianism going for him. He had a talent for cutting to the nut of an idea with earthy clarity, and he had a hawk's eye for intellectual dishonesty.
"Anyone who says he loves the Universe, or God, or Life, is probably neglecting his wife," he wrote to a California philosophy student. "If he has one."
That's one among many deceptively comic one-liners in this generally fruitful sampling of letters to friends, family, admirers, fellow writers, walking buddies, literary agents and, inevitably, newspaper editors. These missives - arranged chronologically, 1949 through 1989 - show their author through a multitude of keyholes. Stubborn but loving letters to a son and daughter show a man fully engaged in his biological legacy; self-effacing but stern letters to his editor show a writer equally concerned with his literary afterlife.
With younger writers Abbey is gentle and generous. With critics he is piercing.
With fools he is withering.
With contemporary authors - especially Hoagland, who seems to have been terrorized by Abbey's aggressive needling - he likes to taunt and tease. Reading over his shoulder as he harasses fresh-to- Montana novelist Tom McGuane for failing to hitch his hobby horses to the environmentalist bandwagon is as much fun as throwing water- balloons at cats out a third-floor window.
Faced with authority, Abbey preferred to provoke. Thus the first line of his letter to the New York Review of Books: "The reviewof Gary Snyder's Turtle Island by Mr. Irvin Ehrenpreis is stupid." The letter went on, of course, to make a convincing case.
Abbey distrusted the gatekeepers of the East Coast literary establishment and resented the lack of attention they paid him. As a "Western" author he mocked what he saw as merely suburban ambition in writers like John Updike and John Cheever, and he had little interest in the ethnic-identity obsessions of Philip Roth and Saul Bellow.
Along the way, Ed Abbey became almost certainly the only human ever to compare Bellow to Reagan-era land-rapist James Watt: "Two of a kind, those fellas, in many ways, alike in their malignant politics, their hatred of environmentalists and their creepy eschatologies."
You could say someone had to do it. But nobody else did, and that willingness - that eagerness - is what made Abbey the iconoclast he was.
Iconoclasm can be costly, though, and all that peppery contrarianism came back at him in the form of pigeonholes: sexist (he was oft-married, and no fan of his era's androgynous leanings), racist (the anti-immigration stance), regional (the fate of more than one staunchly non-New York writer). Happily, Abbey viewed confrontation as good, clean fun, and employed humor to resist attempts to fence him in.
"I am a comic writer," he wrote to an interviewer, "and the generation of laughter is my aim."
One suspects that's hardly the truth, the whole truth and nothing but the truth. But if it's a joke, as always with Abbey, there's definitely a kernel of something hard and true in there.
Early on, Larry McMurtry anointed Abbey "the Thoreau of the American West,"a label that Abbey, characteristically, wore uncomfortably. The comparison caught a corner of Abbey's oeuvre, but the cranky curmudgeon Mark Twain is a more apt precursor.
"Any honest writer," Abbey wrote to one correspondent, "is bound to become a critic of the society he lives in, and sometimes, like Mark Twain or Kurt Vonnegut or Leo Tolstoy or Francois Rabelais, a very harsh critic indeed. The others are sycophants, courtiers, servitors, entertainers."
Abbey was certainly no sycophant. He was a harsh critic indeed, of pop-culture fads and fuzzy-headed romanticism, of effete East Coast liberalism and hidebound Western exploitation. But foremost, as illuminated in even his most tossed-off of postcards, Edward Abbey was a painfully honest writer, fully deserving of the cult of personality he maintains, even 17 years after his death, in America's psychic - as opposed to strictly geographical - West.
The role of Wright's gay apprentices seems highly relevant to any depiction of life inside his studio. The architect, after all, had what can only be called a flamboyant personal style, sweeping through rooms in flowing capes; but he also projected an aggressive masculinity, digging shirtless in the fields with the apprentices, bragging into his 80s about how often he and Olgivanna were having sex and dismissing personal enemies with gay slurs. It is hardly a stretch for a scholar to look for connections between that seeming ambivalence and Wright's career-long effort to strike the perfect balance between Sullivan's flowery, elaborately ornamented buildings and a more muscular, self-reliant style.
In the end, it's the pages and pages of material on Gurdjieff, who visited Taliesin only occasionally, that prove tangential and salacious - and, more to the point, rather unproductive in defining, or redefining, Wright's work. The book promises important evidence of Gurdjieff's influence on Wright's architecture but never really delivers it.
Still, it's not hard to understand why Friedland and Zellman viewed Gurdjieff as the pivot around which the whole story turns. He's certainly a crucial character in the soap opera of it all. And so the shakiest but also the most original part of their thesis is the notion that he and Olgivanna helped Wright open up to a mystical sensitivity that made possible his surprising late burst of creativity.
Thanks to Gurdjieff and Olgivanna, the authors argue, Wright's architecture came to reflect his awareness of his own "cosmic importance" - particularly the Guggenheim, whose spiraling forms they see as a mystical abstraction, floating free of the nature- based symbols that ground much of his other work.
It's an odd twist, perhaps, that as Zellman and Friedland continued to pile up evidence of Olgivanna's zeal for manipulation and Wright's heartlessness and megalomania, both men fell under Gurdjieff's spell.
"At the beginning of our research I had a level of skepticism about Gurdjieff that was limitless," Zellman said. "But by the end I'd come to the conclusion that he's the most reasonable person in the whole book."

</file>

<file= AmE06_C10>

Forget contemporary relevance. We're in a room with three trapped explorers who have been sealed up in the Arctic ice for seven years. No, wait, scratch that. We're in a theater with three youngish, struggling actors, sealed up together to create a new play. Where are we, anyway? We're in a play within a play, and we're definitely trapped.
''The Voyage of the Carcass,'' by Dan O'Brien, which opened on Monday at the SoHo Playhouse, appears to be primarily a vehicle for Dan Fogler, who won a Tony in 2005 for his performance in ''The 25th Annual Putnam County Spelling Bee.'' He is a positively vaudevillian performer: a large but light-footed man with a rubbery face, now declaiming in a roar, now mugging in a mischievous stage whisper.

To signal the kind of character he is, the play kits him out in a clown nose and oversized, padded derriere for the Arctic part of the story, in which he plays Bane Barrington, the leader of the ill-fated expedition.
But then the play, in an embarrassing nose dive from which it never really recovers, abruptly abandons the wacky slapstick of the Arctic episode to reveal the characters as young actors tediously, sometimes squirm-inducingly, debating their work in progress. Mr. Fogler is actually Bill, a frustrated 30-something actor, whose wife and formercollege sweetheart, Helen (Kelly Hutchinson), has rented out a theater and enlisted the services of another old college pal, Dan (Noah Bean), to write this play for him.
Much of Dan's play seems to be based on Bill's real life (a family inheritance supporting a misguided venture), and it is easy to assume that some of Mr. O'Brien's play is based on Mr. Fogler's. (The three actors all went to Boston University, and Mr. Fogler's mother is an associate producer of the play.)
So ''The Voyage of the Carcass'' becomes a kind of manifesto about theater. As Bane and what's left of his crew (Helen becomes Kane, the ship's chaplain, who is really Bane's fiancee in disguise; Dan plays the silent role of Israel, the Canadian porter) struggle with boredom and the dismemberment of their frozen shipmates, Bill, Helen and Dan argue about their relationships, Bill and Helen's marriage, and whether their venture is really worth it.
One climax is a dramatic monologue for Bill that opens with a denunciation of Broadway, using a familiar expletive, and continues through a litany of what seems like every single person or entity even remotely involved in theater, from tourists to the ''gay mafia,'' applying the same word to each. It's a measure of Mr. Fogler's talent that he can make this achingly trite, rather inarticulate speech compelling.
But enjoyable as he is, he can't save the evening. Supporting him, Ms. Hutchinson is a sweet and distinctive presence as Helen; Mr. Bean, evoking the young Christopher Reeve, is slightly wooden in the awkward role of Dan. All are hampered by a play whose main weakness is giving us more information than we want about any of its characters.
There's a kind of palpable relief each time the action re-enters the increasingly unreal space of the Arctic, and gives Mr. Fogler's zany side free rein. The message seems to be that theater is a treacherous illusion, but the piece undermines itself by creating a cartoon-y illusion that is far preferable to its simulacrum of reality.
''The Voyage of the Carcass'' continues through Nov. 12 at the SoHo Playhouse, 15 Vandam Street, South Village, (212) 691-1555.

Berlin has a deserved reputation as a, or the, new world center for all things young and hip. Anyone wishing to test that proposition need look no further than Dance Theater Workshop, where on Thursday a piece called ''Back to the Present,'' by the Berlin-based group Constanza Macras/Dorky Park, was happily ensconced. Theater Heute, a leading German theater magazine, wrote that the piece reflected ''exactly the scene of Berlin bohemia.'' That seems about right.
Ms. Macras comes from Buenos Aires and was trained, among other places, in New York. In 1995 she gravitated to Berlin, like the 12 dancers in her wildly international company. That company, named to recall Gorky Park (the Moscow park and/or rock band) but also to sound dorky, was founded in 2003. Before that she had another group, Tamagotchi Y2K, and she has worked extensively with the various Berlin theaters that subsidize dance.

Dorky Park's first show was a nearly four-hour version of ''Back to the Present,'' performed in a rambling, derelict Berlin department store. The piece was retooled for the stage in 2004 and lasts two and a half hours (with one intermission) at Dance Theater Workshop. The three performances here are part of the citywide European Dream festival.
At first glance this might seem like another of those endlessly proliferating post-Pina Bausch exercises in random vignettes, some dance and some theater (and here, some video) performed by a personable young cast. This kind of work can seem charming but also inconclusive.
What distinguishes ''Back to the Present,'' apart from a particularly personable, sexy cast, is the manic good humor of the entire enterprise. The piece ends with a crazed free-for-all, with everyone stripping (or being stripped) naked and hundreds of stuffed animals and other detritus hurled around the set. It's just exhilarating.
Everything before that leads up to the end. At the outset a woman intones a mantra: ''We dance and we love; we love and we dance.'' And they do dance, intermittently, with considerable skill. But there are also all manner of vignettes, often sexy or sexual or barely clothed.
There are personal stories, charmingly delivered in native or lightly accented English (the lingua franca of Berlin bohemia). There are songs, performed very well indeed by the Dorky Park Ensemble, which consists of the dancers and sounds sometimes like a pretty good rock band and sometimes like a fractured society band, with all manner of bizarre instruments, played well and (deliberately) ineptly.
There are many stuffed animals, sometimes cuddled, sometimes thrown, occasionally disemboweled. (One video shows a beautiful girl in minimal underwear being assaulted by stuffed animals.) There are videos of the dancers in naked orgies, sniffing cocaine. All, it should be reiterated, with terrific, almost childlike sweetness.
In this kind of dance a viewer seeks themes binding the sketches together, some overall shape that lifts the performance above its isolated moments. In interviews Ms. Macras has spoken of memory and ''storage,'' yet at times you had to wonder where she was heading with all this material.
But the animals and the props and the songs and, above all, the cast, which emerged more and more into strongly defined individual personalities, made the whole apparatus cohere. That, and nice self-satire. (''I can't believe this is where the city of Berlin puts its money.'') And, above all, the unstoppable charm, ''La Boheme'' without the tuberculosis.
I myself know ''bohemians'' in Berlin who are sad or impoverished or disappointed or embittered. Ms. Macras does too. But ''Back to the Present'' sees life there among its young and lively through rose-colored glasses, and makes a convincing case for what it sees. No wonder it's been so popular at home. And here, as well: Dance Theater Workshop was packed on Thursday, and erupted with cheers.
The performers all deserve mention: Knut Berger, Diane Busuttil, Joris Camelin, Nir De-Volff, Jill Emerson, Claus Erbskorn, Jared Gradinger, Ayelen Liberona, Maike Moller, Rahel Savoldelli, Yeri Anarika Vargas Sanchez and Thomas Witte.
Constanza Macras/Dorky Park's ''Back to the Present'' continues through tonight at Dance Theater Workshop, 219 West 19th Street, Chelsea; (212) 924-0077 or dtw.org.

MILLBURN, N.J., June 10 -- Dolly, we hardly knew ye.
The feathered hats and headdresses look familiar; the sweeping skirts and corseted bodices too. Business cards still flutter like confetti from that tapestry bag, and her big entrance still involves a beaded gown and a goddesslike descent of a near-legendary staircase. But when the meddling matchmaker opens her mouth in the Paper Mill Playhouse's new production of ''Hello, Dolly!'' here, out leaps a leprechaun.
Seeking to avoid invidious comparisons with Carol Channing, her most celebrated -- and most possessive -- predecessor in the role, the enterprising Tovah Feldshuh has traced the roots of Dolly Gallagher Levi back to an imagined homeland in Ireland, locating the character's feisty spirit in an early life of want in the days of the potato famine. Speaking -- and even singing -- in a brogue as thick as the shtick it must serve, Ms. Feldshuh places her own stamp on one of the musical theater's most celebrated female roles. As they say in old Eire, you go, girl!
Dolly, the one-woman dating service whose most assiduous client is her widowed self, has been played by innumerable actresses since this Jerry Herman musical first opened on Broadway in 1964. But for the Tony-winning creator of the role, Ms. Channing, it became a trademark vehicle to be trotted out at regular intervals over the course of an amazing four decades. Ms. Channing last brought it to Broadway in 1995.
As a result, Ms. Channing's gangly grace, her baritonal rasp of a voice and her megawatt grin have become indelibly associated with Dolly, despite Barbra Streisand's co-opting the role in the bloated but largely faithful movie version. Ms. Channing knew from branding, long before the term was invented.
Ms. Feldshuh's smile may be less resplendently toothy than Ms. Channing's, which sometimes gives the unsettling impression that if you step too close, you might lose a limb. But it is more than sufficient to signal Dolly's embracing spirit. And while she has not appeared on Broadway in a musical since 1979 (in ''Sarava,'' a quick-flop adaptation of ''Dona Flor and Her Two Husbands''), her singing is vibrant and assured, a few tricky register shifts notwithstanding. Petite and svelte, she dances persuasively too, ornamenting the introduction to ''Dancing'' with a little jig, of course.
But it's the accent that first disorients, then beguiles and ultimately delights. By the second act of this efficient, pretty production, Ms. Feldshuh had me convinced that I could hear wistful traces of ''Danny Boy'' in the bridge to the show's famous title tune. Since it is one of those aggressively catchy anthems able to inculcate an allergic reaction to show tunes, who wouldn't be grateful to hear the song given a fresh spin?
It should be made clear that Ms. Feldshuh is not merely working a gimmick. A studious and skilled actress best known for her recent turn on Broadway as Golda Meir, a determined woman asserting her prerogatives on a stage even grander than Dolly's, Ms. Feldshuh may be using an accent to reorient our perceptions of a character, but she is not distorting that character to serve her own ends. In fact, in giving Dolly a new voice, Ms. Feldshuh helps restore to her some of the simple humanity lost under accretions of stardust. (Why not lose, in that case, the silly, star-driven accouterments, like the worship-me belaboring of the title tune, or the curtain-call gown?)
Unfortunately, this persuasively human Dolly throws into unhappy relief the flimsy nature of the other characters in this confectionary musical, with its book by Michael Stewart, which might have been written in creamed corn and marzipan.
The Paper Mill production, directed faithfully by Mark S. Hoebee on airy sets by Michael Anania, features a likable, vocally strong cast led by Walter Charles, who sings with particular grace as Dolly's cranky prey, Horace Vandergelder. Among the three sets of young lovebirds, Brian Sears in particular shines out as a buoyantly charming Barnaby Tucker. But the characters have the depth of antique paper dolls, despite the actors' spirited handling of Mr. Herman's warm, tuneful score.
A musical that traded on nostalgia when it was new, ''Hello, Dolly!'' now must rely on nostalgia for nostalgia to win us over. In our unsentimental age, audiences are likely to dismiss its sweet-spirited exhortations to join the grand parade of life as, in the words of Dolly Gallagher Levi, so much blarney.

</file>

<file= AmE06_C11>

To the many indignities visited upon shorter than average males lower incomes, disadvantage in mate selection, cut rates for their deposits at the local sperm bank has now been added this one: short people are stupider than tall people. That's the finding of a recent study by two Princeton economists who conclude, painfully for those of us who are south of 5 feet 9 inches, or 1.7 meters, that the reason taller people make more money is that they are smarter.
That finding was published too late to make it into Stephen Hall's provocative book, but it's in keeping with the litany of obstacles arrayed against short men that he documents in "Size Matters." Consider the very word "stature." Its primary definition refers to physical height, but it can also connote everything from presence and charisma to virtue and importance; on a metaphorical level, height and worthiness of esteem are linked in the human mind. "Nobility of soul accompanies tallness of body," wrote one 18th- century German physician, reflecting the conventional wisdom of the time. Repeated studies in the modern era have shown that people unconsciously ascribe positive qualities to the tall: in addition to being deemed more intelligent, tall people are automatically considered more likable, more dependable and more commanding. It seems that benefits accrue to the tall beginning almost from birth, and then keep accruing, leading to what is, generally speaking, a society where the tall lead and the short follow an "altocracy," as Hall puts it. The association of height with cultural desirability and even existential value has deep historical roots. The Roman historian Tacitus, writing in the first century A.D., associated height with both strength and moral virtue. Drawing on Tacitus and his successors, King Frederick William of Prussia became obsessed with recruiting and breeding an army of behemoths in the early 1700s. His so-called Potsdam Giants regiment was led by a man reported to be more than 7 feet tall, and included at least one mercenary well over 8 feet; none of the Giants was under 6 feet. Other militaries emulated Frederick (taller soldiers had longer strides, could thrust their bayonets farther and had an easier time reloading their long rifles) and Hall argues that it was at this point that the market value of height first became institutionalized.
As a man of a mere 5 feet 5 and three-quarters inches himself, Hall is on something of a quest, seeking not just to understand the science and culture of stature but also to come to terms with what the cartoonist Garry Trudeau has called his "inner shrimp" that distinctive "I'm smaller than the rest of the world so I hope I don't get beaten up" outlook that is imprinted at an early age and never dispelled, no matter what our final adult heights. Mixing science reporting with personal anecdote, Hall ranges widely across popular culture and the scientific literature to explore such issues as what the average height of a population can reveal about culture and society (Why are the Dutch so tall? And why are Americans becoming relatively shorter?), and how the U.S. Food and Drug Administration's approval of human growth hormone as a "treatment" for undersize children in 2003 changed the politics and science of height. Here's an interesting philosophical question: If what matters psychologically is relative height, by treating short children with growth hormone, aren't we creating a whole new class of undersize "victims," the untreated kids they surpass in height? Have we launched an arms race of avoiding shortness? As Hall puts it, height matters because "it clearly has an impact on social perceptions, romantic interactions, workplace hierarchies and our self-perception long after we've stopped growing."
As a formerly Very Short Person, I found two of Hall's arguments especially interesting. The first is that how tall you end up as an adult matters less than when you grow. Hall cites a wealth of evidence suggesting that how much you are paid in adulthood is determined by how tall you were at age 16. Everything that happens during the crucible of adolescence is emblazoned deeply into consciousness, and stays there. The other appealing argument Hall makes is that there is evolutionary and moral value in being puny. Darwin himself intriguingly suggested that while there is a general evolutionary bias toward greater size, survival-of-the-fittest pressures on our ancestors, who were smaller than their primate competitors, may have led to the development of human intelligence. Or, as Hall speculates, "the relative smallness and weakness of smaller human ancestors might be responsible for nothing less than the birth of civilization." Speaking from his own experience, Hall surmises that being short as a boy forced him to develop not only greater mental quickness and wit but also greater empathy and understanding.
And made him also, perhaps, a more appealing mate than his alpha male competitors. Hall is happily married to a woman almost four inches taller with two kids. 
In the midst of a 36-page deposition that appears two-thirds of the way through "The Meaning of Night," one of the book's character pauses to reflect. "Having put pen to paper, it has surprised me to find how difficult it has been to confine myself to the salient points," he writes. "So many things push themselves forward in my mind for attention."
That comment can be interpreted in several ways. Perhaps it speaks for Michael Cox's own writing. Perhaps it is meant to mimic the windy Victorian style in which Cox's novel has its roots. Perhaps it slyly toys with the conventions of that genre, or perhaps it's just plain windy. Whatever the truth may be, Cox is not eager to vouchsafe that truth speedily to his readers.
Instead, he is eager to use words like vouchsafe as liberally as possible, so that "The Meaning of Night" has the ornate, curlicued linguistic niceties of a Dickensian period piece. Such affectations have the potential to be either voluptuously pleasing (as they were in Michel Faber's "Crimson Petal and the White" and Sarah Dunant's "In the Company of the Courtesan") or arduously contrived (Elizabeth Kostova's "Historian"). But in Cox's version they are oddly colorless. Images like that of "the usual metropolitan bustle, the familiar panorama of unremarkable people doing unremarkable things," are captured all too well.
To be sure, Cox assiduously tries to ensure that it will not be thus. He endows his magnum opus with Latin chapter headings, erudite footnotes, ardent bibliophilia and a gratuitous framing device. The effect of all this is to gild the garden-variety lily that lies beneath.
Cox's effort to write this book has been Herculean. He began assembling material for "The Meaning of Night" 30 years ago and completed this volume in the shadow of serious illness. The task he undertook was daunting, and surely he knows that. Daunt is the name of the novel's villain, too.
The name of the hero is less definite. His last name changes several times in the course of this long story. But his first name remains Edward, and there is a secret about Edward's origins: Edward discovers that he is the true heir to the fortune of Lord Tansor. But Lord Tansor has designated the louche and wicked Phoebus Daunt (from whose putative poetry the book takes its title) as his heir.
Unattractive as Edward's covetousness might be, it becomes the book's motivating force. It is supposedly mitigated by the contention that Edward's desire to inherit Evenwood, the Tansor estate, stems from the wondrousness of Evenwood's library.
The reader need not even know such bibliophilic terms as "fifteeners" (ultra-rare books from the 15th-century infancy of printing) to understand the library's allure or Edward's outrage at the prospect of its falling into scheming Daunt hands.
Cox succeeds in his initial mission: to write an opening sentence that will be quoted in every single review of his book. Here is it, in all its eagerness to stop traffic: "After killing the red-haired man, I took myself off to Quinn's for an oyster supper." A footnote on the same page explains that the title of this introductory chapter, "Exordium," means introduction.
At this rate, Edward's quest for his patrimony can ensue through 700 more pages. It doesn't help that Edward has a quasi-unsavory side. The novel promises a kinky streak that never materializes. But he kills off the above-mentioned red-haired man as a pre-Daunt training exercise. And in a supreme feat of Victorian envelope pushing, he searches for proof of his heritage in the most taboo place imaginable.
This is a rare, perhaps parodying transgression from a character whose usual mode is dithering. "I found that I had not the least idea what to do next," he typically says.
During the convoluted course of his adventures, Edward inevitably fixates on an unattainable woman. "I have loved you from the very first moment," he tells her blandly. And he courts her in ways that, like so much of "The Meaning of Night," are oddly blank despite their seeming specificity.
When Edward takes her to the zoo, everything and nothing happen simultaneously. "She laughed at the hippopotamus, which suddenly plunged into its bath, liberally soaking everyone close by with cold water," Cox writes, "and clapped her hands in amusement at the pelicans being fed."
Ezra Pound was a crackpot on social and political issues, but he knew what he was talking about in matters of the written language. In 1934, in "ABC of Reading," he said, "Literature is news that stays news." In that sense, this collection of articles by David Remnick can stand as literature.
Since 1998, Remnick has served as the editor of The New Yorker, certainly a full-time job. Getting out any weekly magazine requires many hours of reading, choosing, discarding and thinking beyond the obvious. But from the beginning of his editorial duties, Remnick has continued working as a reporter and writer. In the modern era, not many editors make such a choice.
"I was the opposite of a specialist," he writes of his apprenticeship at The Washington Post, starting in 1982. So it is no surprise that these 23 pieces from The New Yorker are the work of a proud generalist, avidly curious about the many enigmas of the world. The articles in "Reporting" range from patient, careful visits with Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn (in Vermont exile and after his return to the new Russia he helped create) to the ravages of Hurricane Katrina. Katharine Graham is here and so is Mike Tyson, shrinking into what Remnick calls "a ghetto kid's fatalism." We visit with Palestinian exiles and true believers. The earliest article dates from 1994; the latest was reported from Israel and Gaza within days of the Hamas victory in the January 2006 elections. As a writer, Remnick practices a classic journalistic style: concrete nouns, active verbs, graceful sentences, solid paragraphs, subtle transitions. A sly wit often punches up the prose, and he is hip in the original sense of the word, which was "knowing," not "fashionable." One measure of his accomplishment is what he avoids: jargon, prophecy, slang that instantly grows moldy, those ugly words that come out of sociology or Washington ("proactive," "impact" as a verb). The engine of his published work is, of course, reporting. Every reporter inhales skepticism. You interview people and they lie. You face public figures, diligently making notes or taping what is said, and they perform their interviews to fit a calculated script. The truth, alas, is always elusive.
The newspaper reporter's daily struggle is against deadlines and column inches, time and space, which is why so many decide to move on as Remnick did after returning from the Soviet Union in 1992 to write better about less. He published longer pieces in The New York Review of Books, Vanity Fair, Esquire and The New Republic, and in 1992 he was hired at The New Yorker by Tina Brown, his predecessor as editor.

</file>

<file= AmE06_C12>

DIRT," the slick and entertaining new FX series (begins Tuesday, 10-11 p.m. EST) about life at a gossip tabloid, has a lot on its mind -- too much perhaps, in which category you can count its forays into female psychology, sexual dysfunction, the vanity of ambition and other silliness. Even so, by the time episode one has puffed to its end it's clear that "Dirt" is about to become irresistible, not least for its picture of the celebrity world and its strange relationship with the tabloids that can wreak such havoc on careers with their reports on scandals false or true, exclusives about stars secretly carted off to the drug rehab center, and much, much worse. They can, in their way, also promote careers.
Tuesday's pilot introduces, among others, Holt (Josh Stewart), a once serious young actor and now a has-been hungry for work who agrees to deliver the deepest-held secret of a hot starlet (and close friend) to the editors of the tabloid (named "Dirt") in exchange for career-burnishing coverage for himself. The starlet's life turns to ashes, and -- thanks to the puff piece about him -- her betrayer is soon scoring job offers. It's not exactly "Rosemary's Baby," of course -- Holt is quickly undone by paralyzing guilt. Moreover, the devil to whom he sold his friend is a woman, the beautiful, single-minded killer of an editor in chief, Dirt's Lucy Spiller, a character Courteney Cox portrays with her usual glitzy, if depthless, charm.
This isn't, to be sure, an enterprise concerned with depths, Lucy's or those of anyone else -- it's a broad, sharply drawn take on the struggles to the death for celebrity pictures, stories and fresh scandal that are central to the lives and success of the tabloids.
Episode two regales us with the plight of an unbearable Hollywood glamour couple. Blair Marshall and Logan Hix, apparently about to become parents of a newborn wonderfully named -- whether by the pursuing reporters or parents to be isn't clear -- "Blogan." No couple has ever been so controlling about their pregnancy pictures, Lucy and staff complain amid the growing media frenzy. (Ms. Cox had her own experience with packs of photographers focused on her pregnancy and so brings a certain authority to this part of the story.)
Amid all the fun here, there is a strange thread of preachiness woven around and about the character of Dirt's editor in chief, who has focused her life's energies and all her passion on success at her job -- a woman not especially concerned to have it all, or have, indeed, anything not related to her primary concern. Namely, business.
After one not entirely successful sexual encounter, she sends the unhappy man off with a kiss, despite his entreaties to stay, pointing out that she still has hours of work left to finish. "You're just like a guy," comes his bitter judgment. Another angry male tells her he imagined her alone in her expensive home, "with nothing to hold but your latest issue." Topping all that off, the series' creators also make plain the kind of sexual defect that results from drives to succeed like Lucy's. Plenty of punishment here, in short, for a woman whose work and success obsession is just like a guy's. At the end of episode three, the moment of her highest professional triumph Lucy is not surprisingly shown wandering forlornly around her empty, expensive house -- there's nothing subtle about this -- just as the angry male envisioned.
That moment of highest triumph has been secured through the wondrous character who holds this series together -- Lucy's chief soldier, agent of deception and expert sneak photographer, Don Konkey, masterfully portrayed here by Ian Hart.
Don is supposed to be a schizophrenic, a functioning one, as he informs people -- a role Mr. Hart informs with so much skill and variety it's hard to wait for his next scene. His success in carrying off this derangement of many colors doesn't altogether make up for klunky spots in the writing -- there are those pointless and persistent visions that appear to him, of a dead actress -- but Mr. Hart's Don manages to get past those, too, with minimal trouble. He's at his best relating to his dead cat, which he does with dignified, if tormented, sincerity -- and at feats like getting into the impossibly well guarded hospital quarters of a star in hiding and snapping her picture. All this he can accomplish under bombardment from hallucinations, with voices nattering in his head, and after mixing all his medications at will. His character could conceivably bring objections from the mental-disability establishment, but it should bring nothing but gratitude from the producers of this series, toward whose likely success he will have contributed mightily.

AMONG ITS DISTINCTIONS, and there are many, "To the Ends of the Earth" ("Masterpiece Theatre," Sunday, 9-10:30 p.m. EDT on PBS; check local listings) can claim a visceral impact unequaled in recent memory. By the time the first episode of this three-part series based on William Golding's sea trilogy ("Rites of Passage," "Close Quarters" and "Fire Down Below") is over, indeed, viewers may find themselves grateful for the feel of solid ground beneath their feet, and also a touch queasy. And this is just the beginning of the perilous sea journey that is the setting of this marvelously layered drama of caste and class -- a combination morality tale and high adventure as crew and passengers struggle to survive the storm-lashed route taking them from the safety of England to Australia.
Which may as well be, in fact, the ends of the earth given the impossible length and torments confronting these early 19th-century travelers crammed into an old warship converted to passenger service, and relentlessly buffeted by storms. A ship that has begun to come apart, literally, at its seams.
No one will come away from this production (adapted by the late Leigh Jackson and Tony Basgallop, directed by David Attwood) without deepened appreciation for the misery of sea-sickness, captured here in all its depth and variety, not to mention duration.
Golding (1911-1993), a naval commander during World War II and winner of the 1983 Nobel Prize for literature, began his career with "Lord of the Flies" (1954) and ended it, in the 1980s, with the sea trilogy. Its youthful hero, Edmund Talbot -- portrayed by Benedict Cumberbatch with a fine-tuned mix of innocence, verve, and the assurance befitting an aristocratic young Englishman -- is first shown here on a carriage ride amid England's serene landscapes, a powerful suggestion of the vastly different circumstances in which he is soon to find himself, none of which include serenity. Now on his way to Australia to take a government job procured for him by a powerful godfather, young Talbot is startled to find himself on a Royal Navy ship from hell -- one whose dangers and discomforts, both physical and moral, will prove the sort no manservant can appease, equipped though he is with one.
In episode one -- "Rites of Passage" -- particularly, moral discomfort weighs heavily on Talbot, for reasons not quite clear to him: A lack of clarity that makes all the more fascinating -- and horrifying -- the plight of another passenger, the dauntlessly eager Parson Colley (Daniel Evans), bent on spreading the word of God and improving the spiritual lives of his fellow passengers. This episode isn't called "Rites of Passage" for nothing, and neither is it for nothing that its central scene, in which the parson is made a target of pitiless torment, evokes something of the anarchic world of "Lord of the Flies" -- except that here the inhabitants running amok are men, not boys, and their society is one ruled, supposedly, by strict codes of behavior.
The architect of the parson's torment is the ship's commander, Captain Anderson, played superbly by Jared Harris ("The Notorious Bettie Page"). One look at the Captain's eyes, aglimmer with calculation, and that grim visage says worlds, none of them good. Still, there is more to know about this authority, as there is about Talbot's unconscious part in the outrage -- as there is about every key figure in this story, the parson decidedly included.
Episode two takes young Talbot through heavier storms, both those whipped up by the seas, and those that can roil the heart. Talbot is to fall instantly in love -- a passion to go unrequited -- when his ship connects with another becalmed English vessel that he and fellow passengers at first feared might belong to the French. The passengers and crews of both ships unite in celebration, whose high point is an extraordinary, spine-tingling rendering of "God Save the King" -- a scene that renders all else about this party forgettable.
Young Talbot's travels and his ship's adventures finally come to an end after the most fearful of frights and tests of endurance, made supportable by plenty of drink and the occasional bond of fellowship. It has been, from the start, a magnificent journey.
HE CURIOUS MAY wonder, when "30 Rock" begins (Wednesday, 8-8:30 p.m. EDT), how NBC came to mount two shows -- the other being "Studio 60 on the Sunset Strip" -- about backstage life at a TV show bearing strong resemblances to "Saturday Night Live." Such time spent wondering is likely to be short because, two minutes past "30 Rock"'s opening, the curious will be, like everyone else, in thrall to its brazen wit.
The creator and star of this enterprise is Tina Fey, "Saturday Night Live" veteran, in the role of Liz Lemon, a proud professional whose plum job as chief writer on a live TV program in New York is quickly doomed. The trouble arrives with company man Jack Donaghy (Alec Baldwin), a new network chief with monstrous creative ideas of his own -- a character who's shown up in every workplace sitcom ever set at a TV or radio station, including, memorably, "The Mary Tyler Moore Show."

The difference here -- "30 Rock" being a far cry from your mother's sitcom -- is that the new boss doesn't soon see the light, go home to his oil wells, or otherwise get written out of the script. This one, whose rise to the top creative spot is credited to his success in the microwave oven business, is there for good, bloated with confidence as he proceeds to retool the show -- a role Mr. Baldwin carries off with great poker-faced panache, never more so than when delivering lines like the kind he gets to throw at Liz. "I like you," he tells the enraged, 30ish head writer. "You have the boldness of a much younger woman."
Chief among the things enraging Liz is the boss's decision to add a wild character called Tracy Jordan to the show, a comedian whose race-based riffs have won a following. The boss figures he'll do better than the show's current star, Jenna Maroney (Jane Krakowski). "The blond, big-eyed girl," as the focus groups refer to her, turns out to be "popular with women and older gays." Not good. Off goes a frantic Liz, dispatched to persuade Tracy to join the show.
The ensuing scenes, set first in a Harlem eatery and later in a strip joint, are, in the comedy department, pure gold -- and that's the department that matters. Tracy Jordan is played by Tracy Morgan ("Saturday Night Live") dead-on as the psychopath/comic, radiating warmth -- "Where's the love?" he beams -- followed in an instant by homicidal rage. He's proud of what he is, too -- "straight-up mentally ill" -- and he knows who is responsible for all the troubles confronting blacks and creative people. One of those he fingers is Karl Robe. Did you say Karl Robe, Liz wants to know? Of course he did. On the action goes as Tracy drags the desperate Liz -- the show is supposed to open that night -- to his favorite strip club.

</file>

<file= AmE06_C13>

"A leader is like a shepherd," Nelson Mandela proclaimed more than a decade ago in his autobiography. "There are times when a leader must move out ahead of his flock, go off in a new direction, confident that he is leading his people in the right way." 
It's an arrogant statement -- could any other democratically elected politician get away with equating his constituents with sheep? -- and yet supremely apt. For Mandela is arguably the greatest political leader of our time, the one person worthy of mention alongside FDR, Churchill and Gandhi. Mandela led the political and moral crusade for majority rule in South Africa against a white supremacist police state, risking his life, surrendering his personal freedom and his family's well-being. He spent 27 years in prison only to emerge as a wise, dynamic and conciliatory figure binding black and white together as father of his nation and inspiration for the world. 
The danger, of course, is that in extolling Mandela's virtues, it's all too easy to turn him into a saint -- worshipped and untouchable and therefore of no practical value as a guide for our own behavior -- and to lose track of the flawed, flesh-and-blood human being whom we can learn from and seek to emulate. As George Orwell once warned, "Saints should always be judged guilty until they are proved innocent." 
Tom Lodge's Mandela: A Critical Life is an attempt to rescue the real man -- virtues and blemishes alike -- from the frozen wasteland of sainthood. Lodge is a political scientist who has spent his professional life rigorously and fearlessly charting the complex and treacherous crosscurrents of South African political life, from the apartheid era to the age of black rule. While he is a white liberal with enormous personal sympathy for the cause of black liberation, he has never hesitated to write critically and analytically about black politics and politicians. 
This is a dry, brisk and authoritative account that always seeks to place Mandela's decisions in their political context. Lodge emphasizes how Mandela's values were shaped by a childhood in rural Transkei, where he learned Victorian principles of self-control, etiquette, chivalry and independence at Methodist-run schools and developed a lifelong respect for British laws and principles. His upbringing in royal Transkeian society shielded the child from humiliating encounters with whites, allowing the adult to be less scarred and more magnanimous. Lodge draws a clear line connecting the young, colorful and impetuous Mandela, who was a sharp dresser and a handsome ladies' man, with the older prison veteran. "There are no sudden turning points," Lodge insists. 
From the beginning of his career, Mandela has conducted himself as a public figure, has sought celebrity and has used his personal charisma as a political tool. Lodge focuses on Mandela's self-consciously theatrical approach to politics, arguing that he was one of South Africa's first media politicians -- always aware of the camera and the audience, constructing his own myth and acting out a narrative of messianic leadership. When he stood before the judge at his trial for sabotage in 1963, under the shadow of the hangman, Mandela did not flinch from the role that he had written for himself. He delivered a four-hour speech from the dock that was at once defiant and conciliatory, declaring that he was opposed to either white or black domination and championed equality: "It is an ideal which I hope to live for and achieve. But if needs be, it is an ideal for which I am prepared to die." 
Lodge is following in the footsteps of three major Mandela biographies, including the former president's own Long Walk to Freedom, co-written with Richard Stengel of Time magazine. Each of the three -- the others are by Anthony Sampson and Martin Meredith -- is as thick as a doorstop, written in a magisterial style, with a tendency to salute certain myths about the man and his mission. Lodge's writing style is more pedestrian, sometimes bordering on the seriously academic, but his analysis is often deeper and tougher. 
Ultimately, writes Lodge, Mandela's adherence to simple virtues -- social obligations, manners and proper behavior -- produced "a politics of grace and honor that, notwithstanding its conservatism, was probably the only politics that could have enabled South Africa's relatively peaceful transition to democracy." In that long march, there was no bloodbath, no last stand by white militants, no Armageddon. No one deserves more credit for this than Nelson Mandela. 
At first glance, the other book under review, Mandela: The Authorized Portrait, looks like pure, unembarrassed hagiography, the kind of coffee table tome that opens with encomiums from former president Bill Clinton and Archbishop Desmond Tutu and goes on to a series of celebrity guest appearances from the likes of Prince Bandar bin Sultan, Tony Blair, Sidney Poitier and Bono. But that first impression is misleading because the narrative text by Mike Nicol is rich and nuanced, the historical documents revealing and the photographs thrilling and evocative. The overhead shot of black South Africans crowding outside the Johannesburg Drill Hall in 1956 for a glimpse of Mandela and other defendants in the original mass Treason Trial is itself worth the price of admission, as is a photo of the open graves for the 69 victims of the 1960 Sharpeville massacre. These images, interspersed among intimate portraits of Mandela, are a reminder that the man and the nation are forever entwined. * 

We should strike the term "terrorist group" from the lexicon of those charged with beating Osama bin Laden, al-Qaeda and its allies. The term defeats thought, understanding and imagination, and it allows leaders in both parties to argue a politically correct absurdity: that al-Qaeda threatens U.S. national security but that our attackers are a limited number of criminal magicians who have hijacked the faith of millions of Muslims and will "be brought to justice one man at a time." 
Although "insurgent" is not a perfect fit either, the term far better describes al-Qaeda and the other Islamists attacking America. These zealous groups are large, multi-functional, media-savvy, well-funded, superbly led and religiously motivated. Their focus is on winning, not strutting on the world stage. Numerous No. 2, No. 3 and No. 4 leaders of al-Qaeda are gone, but the organization's threat remains. Most important, al-Qaeda and its ilk -- unlike traditional terrorist and insurgent groups -- have no return address; they are not confined to one state or reliant upon its patronage. Islamist groups can hit America with impunity and high confidence that U.S. military forces cannot annihilate them in response. Al-Qaeda is many things, including a proliferating ideology and a unique, multi-ethnic insurgent organization. It is also a growing threat to U.S. security, in part because our leaders do not accept these realities. 
Abdel Bari Atwan fully grasps the foregoing in his excellent, very personal book, The Secret History of al Qaeda. As editor-in-chief of the best Arabic-language daily newspaper, Al-Quds al-Arabi, Atwan "got it" from the moment bin Laden appeared on the scene. Atwan saw that the threat bin Laden posed far exceeded any the West had faced from a terrorist group. He also knew that "the notion that Muslims hate the American people or Western civilization is dangerous and erroneous. What many do hate is American foreign policy." This timeless truth remains inaudible for U.S. leaders, who will leap on any explanation for Muslim anti-Americanism except our invasion of Iraq, unqualified support for Israel and protection for tyrannies that rule Muslims across the Islamic world. 
Atwan's 1996 interview with bin Laden in his Afghanistan redoubt was one of the first and remains one of the best. He describes the trip to meet bin Laden in detail and frankly admits he hesitated to run the risks. We are in Atwan's debt that his nerve held: The interview came soon after bin Laden's initial declaration of war on America and gave the world its first close look at that talented, ruthless and pious warrior. "After meeting bin Laden," Atwan writes, "I realized that this was no ordinary man, and fully expected that he would play a significant role in the history of his homeland, Saudi Arabia, and the Muslim world in general." 
Atwan reminds the West that "no serious study of bin Laden and al Qaeda can ignore the Islamic background from which they have emerged. . . . Without Islam there would be no al Qaeda." Bin Laden fits neatly into Islamic history's continuum; from the Prophet Muhammad to Saladin to bin Laden (as the al-Qaeda leader sees it), Muslim leaders have waged defensive jihads against infidels attacking Islam's lands, creed and followers. Atwan's concise discussions of Islamic history, jihad and politics should silence the oft-used inanity that bin Laden has "hijacked" Islam. Moreover, Atwan's conclusion should deeply unsettle U.S. leaders: "Bin Laden is the latest in a line of figureheads, for many, in keeping with Muslim tradition." As the ideological leader of a popular global insurgency, he embodies "the political aspirations of a significant proportion of the Muslim nation, aspirations which are inextricably bound up with their faith." 
Here, Atwan's blend of memoir and journalism far outshines an academic's work. One can only hope that Louise Richardson's What Terrorists Want will prove the last shriek from the academy's antiquated terrorism experts, who are reluctant to admit that al-Qaeda poses a unique menace. Richardson, the executive dean of the Radcliffe Institute for Advanced Study, lustily sings the "nothing is new under the terrorism sun" song; her book leads readers on an erudite if irrelevant tour of the histories of the 1st-century Jewish millenarian sect called the Zealots, the 7th-century Hindu Thug cult, the 12th-century Shiite Muslim sect known as the Assassins, the fin-de-siecle Russian anarchists, and such 20th-century terrorist groups as the IRA, the Red Brigades and Shining Path, among others. 
But none of these posed a national security threat to the United States; none is remotely comparable to al-Qaeda and its allies. Traditional terrorist groups have limited agendas, allure and bloodlust; groups such as the IRA, whose deadliest attacks left just dozens dead, are a lethal nuisance. On the other hand, al-Qaeda -- with its potent ideology, its divine sanction for unlimited murder, its operational sophistication and its ambition to create a regional caliphate -- is a genuine strategic threat. Compare a fertilizer-based bomb in Belfast to a nuclear bomb in Houston. 
Richardson's academic objectivity also fails her in these pages. Her review of U.S. counterterrorism policy correctly criticizes George W. Bush, Ronald Reagan, Dick Cheney and Donald Rumsfeld, but the book's index has no entry for Bill Clinton, Madeleine Albright, Al Gore, George Tenet or Sandy Berger. In an era when the leaders of both political parties have been monumental failures in the fight against al-Qaeda, that oversight can only be seen as partisan. 
Worse, Richardson also claims that we do not understand al-Qaeda's strength, appeal and goals. "If we don't even know what our enemies are fighting for," she writes, "we cannot hope to counter them effectively." But Richardson seems to have missed a decade of al-Qaeda studies -- including Atwan's -- that provide exactly that data. The careful works of Bruce Hoffman, Peter L. Bergen, Daniel Byman, Paul Pillar and Daniel Benjamin irrefutably demonstrate that al-Qaeda is no mere terrorist group -- in terms of its size, organizational ingenuity, operational sophistication, geographical reach, educated membership, leadership skills and determination to defeat its foe rather than just use random violence to signal anger. Al-Qaeda is a worldwide insurgency against which the old law-enforcement-based counterterrorism doctrine is nearly useless; indeed, relying on the old tactics ensures defeat. The new breed of al-Qaeda scholars also suggests that bin Laden has emerged as a leader whose charisma, words and deeds are harnessing what history shows to be the extraordinary mobilizing and motivating power of Islam at times when Muslims believe -- as many do today -- that they and their faith are under infidel attack.

</file>

<file= AmE06_C14>

If you're in the mood for a good Western, you're reading the wrong review. That would be John Hillcoat's "The Proposition," reviewed below.
Writer-director David Jacobson's "Down in the Valley" merely wants to be a Western - wants it so badly that it injects Old West movie cliches into a contemporary drama set in L.A.'s San Fernando Valley.
Many of the old studio Westerns that Jacobson reveres were shot in the San Fernando Valley before urban sprawl filled it with the tract houses and asphalt roads where this, this - I don't know what to call it - takes place.
"Valley" stars Edward Norton as Harlan, a delusional drifter who dresses like the Ringo Kid, practices quick-draw from a two-gun holster in his motel room, carries a lariat over his shoulder in public and occasionally "borrows" a horse from a private corral and roams the still barren hills rimming the valley.
When Tobe (Evan Rachel Wood), the teenage daughter of a sheriff's deputy (David Morse), meets him in a filling station and invites him to join her and her friends for a day at the beach, an unwise romance is launched that leads to tragic consequences.
The first two-thirds of "Valley," in which this oddball charmer befriends Tobe's shy brother (Rory Culkin) and tries to sell his sincerity to her outraged father, is superb. Norton is so convincing, you're inclined to root for him even though you know he's a disaster on the hoof, and as his infatuated lover, Wood is the vulnerable daughter of every father's nightmare.
Then, in a way that will have you asking the proverbial question "what were they thinking?", the movie turns into something strange and annoying, an attempted blend of a suburban thriller with an Old West shoot-'em-up.
In the film's weirdest scene, Harlan walks into the middle of a movie set where a remake of John Ford's "My Darling Clementine" is underway. A moment later, he's holding a gun on the actor playing Wyatt Earp, then turning it on the real cops who've come to arrest him.
Whatever Jacobson hoped to accomplish with "Valley's" ambitious, overlong finale, it doesn't work. Not as a Western, not as a drama, and not as a fable.
Two women from different areas of TV yesterday tried to stake their claims as daytime syndicated talk-show hosts and had two different results.
Rachael Ray, who comes from the Food Network, was fair. Megan Mullally, fresh from NBC's "Will & Grace," was foul.
"Rachael Ray" (10 a.m., WABC/Ch. 7) has the muscle of Oprah Winfrey, who is today's guest. That alone makes the show an odds-on favorite to succeed. She also has a giant, workable set - full kitchen, comfy sitting areas, even a working elevator from which she descended to make her entrance.
"This is my first show with people," Ray said, referring to the irrepressibly amped studio audience. "For five years, I've been on the Food Network talking to vegetables."
Yes, Ray can talk, incessantly. And when she gets into one of her sing-song cadences, listing things while bobbing her head and grinning widely, she looks and sounds alarmingly like Gilda Radner' Roseanne Roseannadanna. But once her guest Diane Sawyer came on, Ray fell into a more natural conversational tone.
In her new one-hour show, Ray, known for her series "30 Minute Meals," settled on even more stringent time constraints: a 60- second snack and a seven-minute meal. In both cases, she beat the clock - but she didn't have one.
When you're spending this sort of money launching a new show, with a fully practical kitchen set, wouldn't it have been equally practical to include a kitchen clock?
A remote segment on skydiving with a fan didn't exactly soar, and a Webcam two-way chat with a fan was useless, since Ray didn't interact with her once while focusing on cooking her seven-minute meal. Teasers for upcoming segments, though, suggest that there's enough in "Rachael Ray" to give it time to develop and grow.
"The Megan Mullally Show" (3 p.m., WNBC-Ch. 4), on the other hand, was dead on arrival. An opening production number had Mullally singing new lyrics to songs from "Hair" (no kidding: "'This is the dawning of 'The Megan Mullally Show'").
Her first guest, Will Ferrell, turned out to be a personal friend, so they swapped stories about their vacation together, and how he can't change a tire. Then he sang "Wind Beneath My Wings" to her, supposedly in homage to the way Bette Midler once serenaded Johnny Carson - but without changing the lyrics.
Making Ferrell seem unfunny is bad enough. Coming off less amusing than Jenny McCarthy, her other guest yesterday, is both unbelievable and unforgivable. At the end, she asked her mother, who sat in the audience, to review the show. Mom loved it. That's unconditional love, people. When the audience asks better questions than the host - when McCarthy went into the crowd, that's precisely what happened - there's little or no hope for improvement. At least "The Chevy Chase Show" featured a telegenic fish tank.
One of the biggest compliments a TV critic can pay to a weekly series - especially a show in its freshman season - is to add it to the already bloated list of must-watch programs. This year, the most surprising entrant on that elite list (earning a Season Pass on my TiVo DVR) is NBC's "Heroes."
What can I say? Based on the first three episodes (the last of which, with its killer autopsy-table cliffhanger, was televised last Monday), I gave "Heroes" a very supportive and enthusiastic three- star ranking. At the time, I thought I was going out on a limb, perhaps getting swept away by a show that hits all the right buttons of a former Marvel Comics-reading kid who loves unpredictable and unusual television.
To my shock and delight, "Heroes" is one of the few serialized dramas embraced, rather than rejected, by the American public this season. Not only does "Heroes" improve substantially on its "Deal or No Deal" lead-in,
but after three weeks on the air, it has emerged as the top- rated new series in the all-important 18-49 age group. Last week, in that same category, it made the top 10 overall - not just against new series, but against all of them.
With "Smith" already pulled by CBS, and "Vanished" and "Kidnapped" banished to less competitive nights by Fox and NBC, respectively, the breakout success of "Heroes" is even more impressive. In one way, though, it makes sense. "Vanished" and "Kidnapped" sound like the same show (and were, essentially, though "Kidnapped" is far superior). And while NBC may have two shows about the making of a late-night sketch series, no one but NBC has a show this year about a bunch of ordinary people who find themselves suddenly endowed with extraordinary powers.
NBC has provided the next two shows for preview: tonight's "Chapter Four" (at 9), and next week's "Chapter Five." They're good enough to warrant a second review, with an extra half-star added. It's not too late to hop aboard this series, but if you wait any longer, you'll be missing out on a wild ride. (Each week, NBC makes the latest episode available free on its Web site,www.nbc.com ).
The characters in "Heroes" still are coming to grips with the extent of their powers and how to use them. It's part of what makes them human, and a lot of what makes this show interesting. We know already, thanks to visions by two of the characters, that a nuclear blast is due to hit New York just after Election Day. But who's behind it? And how can our "Heroes" find each other in time, much less agree on the combined mission to prevent the disaster?
Sometimes they're tempted to use their new abilities for less than heroic ends, as when time-warping Hiro (Masi Oka) visits Las Vegas and manipulates the roulette wheel, or when cheerleader Claire (Hayden Panettiere), the girl with the astounding healing powers who found herself on the autopsy table last week, takes revenge on her attacker by taking him on the kind of drive usually reserved for crash-test dummies. Other times they're drawn, like animals in migration, to the same general direction.
"Heroes" contains too many enjoyable surprises to spoil any of them - but the paths of these people keep crossing, in much more entertaining a fashion than on, say, "Six Degrees." And yes, those cliffhanger endings are clear signatures now. Watch for them, wait for them, and enjoy them. Just like the rest of the show.
Twenty years after its publication, German author Patrick Suskind's allegorical novel "Perfume: The Story of a Murderer" is reborn as a $60 million movie, and it is worth every "scent."
Directed by fellow German Tom Tykwer ("Run, Lola, Run"), this is a crazy, gorgeous, disturbing, darkly comic horror story about an early-18th-century Frenchman born in a Paris fish market without any odor of his own but with a sense of smell that would make a pack of bloodhounds wail with envy.
Jean-Baptiste Grenouille (Ben Whishaw) can smell you as you read this review, and knows what you had for breakfast. I'm telling you, the guy is good.
But he is also a monster, a serial killer who distills the scent of dead virgins with the hope of creating a perfume of such erotic power that he will become master of all who inhale it.
We follow Jean-Baptiste from his birth under a fishmonger's table through his years at a Dickensian orphanage, his slave labor at a foul tannery, his apprenticeship with an Italian perfume maker (a fragrantly over-the-top Dustin Hoffman) and his reign of terror in the perfume capital of Grasse.
It is in Grasse where he learns the art of enfleurage, a method of distilling the aromatic oils in flowers that he will apply to the bodies of his virgin prey. As Jean-Baptiste works his way toward the magic number of 13 victims, the townspeople become as hysterical as the torch-bearing mob that drove Frankenstein's monster to a toasty death in a windmill.
In fact, Grenouille - skeletally thin, his flesh stained with tanning oils, his nostrils constantly flaring - is one of the most vividly imagined monsters since the days of Mary Shelley and Bram Stoker.
Adapting a novel about smells is a daunting task for a filmmaker, and there are moments near the end of "Perfume" that may inspire more you've-got-to-be-kidding-me laughter than awe. But the movie does tease and torment the olfactory nerve in ways Este Lauder never dreamed of.
It certainly evokes the odors of lower Paris, of the rougey salons above and of the gardens of wealthy merchant Antoine Richis (Alan Rickman), whose beautiful daughter Laura (Rachel Hurd-Wood) figures prominently in Jean-Baptiste's plans.
But we are long past the days when anyone thought Smell-O-Vision was a good idea, let alone pined for it. In the case of "Perfume," which assumes a supernatural sense of smell - and a most generous suspension of disbelief - imagination is of the essence.
You may withhold some judgment of Sedgwick's Emily, not because her behavior is neurotically possessive and protective - traits most young mothers feel at some level - but because this Emily is psychotic. She's the horror-movie mother from hell.
"Loverboy" is very strangely directed, with creepily stylized flashbacks that depict Emily's parents (Bacon, Marisa Tomei) as cartoonish, self-absorbed and ultimately self-destructive hippies, and her adored neighbor (Sandra Bullock) as a kind of gossamer, man- hating guardian angel.
But the real trouble is at its core, with an over-the-top performance from Sedgwick that borders on Baby Jane campiness.
In the early scenes, Emily is an anti-social nymphomaniac, on the prowl for zipless encounters with strangers who, as a collective sperm donor, will yield her a perfect, fatherless child.
When her son is born, she names him Paul after a conventioneer (Campbell Scott) who seduces her in a hotel. But to the boy's dismay, as he grows older and insists on being around other children, she will only call him Loverboy.

</file>

<file= AmE06_C15>

Garrison Keillor's Good Poems for Hard Times is promoted as "a heart-lifting new anthology to inspire the world-weary . . . guaranteed to raise flagging spirits or inspire those in need of a dose of wisdom or honesty." You may think these lines more suitable for an advertising campaign for vitamins or Prozac. Now, even poetry is packaged as a feel-good pick-me-up for troubling times. Should this bother me? Penguin Books knows more about marketing than I do.
That Keillor's "Prairie Home Companion" weekly radio show has become a brand enjoyed by more than 4 million listeners suggests -- along with his registered trademarks such as Powdermilk Biscuits -- that he has patented the formula for packaging sentiment with the occasional leap of grace. Perhaps even Keillor is bothered that, like the radio show's counterfeit promotions for ketchup by the Catchup Advisory Board, the sales pitch for this new anthology lauds poetry for its "mellowing agents." But maybe not.
Those who appreciate the Keillor brand especially admire such comfort, and it makes good sense that at times we would go to such words for quiet reflection. Yet, his introduction to Good Poems for Hard Times excludes all but this approach to poetry in the same homespun, castor-oil, good-sense tone Keillor uses when he performs on his radio show.
Read solely for "directness, clarity and truthfulness," a number of the poems in the anthology are so similarly wistful that reading them can feel like driving though a gated suburbia, house after house, comforting but also sedative in its repetitive murmur. Poet Denise Levertov said poetry could "awaken sleepers" -- like life, poetry embraces infinity, variety and doubt. Keillor's singular campaign for plain talk is a kind of pre-emptive strike against reading beyond a poem's placid surface for its intensity.
Many of these poems are sweet reads and offer a measure of the intensity readers deserve. Poems by Miller Williams ("A Poem for Emily") and Fleur Adcock ("For a Five-Year-Old") are comforting, musical. Robyn Sarah's "Riveted" conveys how we are "spellbound by our own imperfect lives/because they are our lives,/and because they are ours." In Galway Kinnell's "That Silent Evening," the use of "heaven" as a verb astounds us: "and the light doubles and shines/ through the dark the sparkling that heavens the earth."
But we never get too amazed here. In an echo of Keillor's radio show, classic and contemporary poems are interspersed with -- you could say sponsored by -- jingles from Burma Shave and Carnation Milk. Those jingles are fun, and they relieve us from the demands of life for a time.
In the introduction, Keillor recalls the cadence of his carpenter father's life as a metaphor for poetry: "When he took a chicken by the legs and laid its neck against the block and lifted the ax and chopped off its head, there was a cadence to that. I hear that whack in poetry." Yet when Keillor later writes, "What animates poetry is faith, the same faith that moves the builder and the butcher," I note the limits of his metaphor. Faith is less clear than chicken- whacking or carpentry, and the link between faith and earthly activities is often more awash in awe.
Poetry can increase the feel for life, and we need more of that. In a book that has the attention of the reading public, perhaps Keillor could have further introduced his Prairie Home companions to poetry's depth and breadth, to the way its music and landscape resonate even after the page has been turned. We can take it; we're a lively bunch. Keillor's assertion that "the meaning of poetry is to give courage" is limiting, a salvo fired from the ship of someone who knows better. It sounds as though all poems must offer false bravado, seeking to erase our fears. In many moving poems, I don't feel the strength of a thousand men when I read them. I feel the trembling of the spirit's acknowledgement of trouble and language rushing in to make a song of it.
The reader can find such trembling here, and a little yearning and wondering, if she's not reading for mellowing agents alone. In "When Death Comes," Mary Oliver writes, "When it's over, I want to say: all my life/I was a bride married to amazement/I was the bridegroom, taking the world into my arms." The depth of those lines is a wish, against a background darker than comfort allows.
Perhaps because of editorial choice, poem length or reprint restrictions, some poets you'd hope to find in an anthology titled Good Poems for Hard Times are absent -- Czeslaw Milosz and Joseph Brodsky, for example. And Anna Akhmatova. Her "Requiem" to the victims of the Stalinist regime is unflinching. At the poem's end I know I am not finished with it, and it is not done with me.
Watching Lookingglass Theatre Company's utterly beguiling new stage adaptation of Charles Dickens' "The Old Curiosity Shop" -- a show that arrives with the aptly formulated subtitle, "A Victorian Fairy Tale of Joy and Woe" -- it is impossible not to recall that Dickens himself adored the theater and was, by all accounts, a terrific actor. In fact, the story is told that once, after performing in a play by Ben Jonson, an old extra caught the novelist at the stage door and said: "Ah, what an actor you would have made, Mr. Dickens, if it just hadn't been for them books."
Of course, "them books" have been the source of countless theatrical renderings, from "A Christmas Carol" and "The Adventures of Nicholas Nickleby," to "Great Expectations," "David Copperfield" and Lookingglass' own unforgettable version of "Hard Times," first produced in 2001.
Filled to bursting with larger-than-life characters bearing the most inspired, personality-defining names -- all of whom are intricately fitted into the machinations of plots as dark and twisting as the streets of Victorian London -- Dickens' novels seem made for the stage. And the author's uncompromising look at the human toll that comes to those caught up in a society in which money is the great dictator of destinies, and love and kindness are sustained only through the greatest, odds-defying efforts, adds passion and gravitas to all the quirkiness.
"The Old Curiosity Shop" was conceived by Raymond Fox (who also plays The Single Gentleman, an Englishman who has returned to London after years in America and who serves as both narrator and participant in the tale). He adapted it seamlessly in collaboration with Laura Eason and Heidi Stillman. Director Tracy Walsh has devised the fluid, ingenious, almost balletic staging that makes every aspect of the storytelling come into focus with an instantly memorable clarity, speed and vividness.
The story is quintessential Dickens -- the tale of warped souls and warped bodies trying to survive in a society that can be immensely cruel and unforgiving to those whose fortunes have been lost or squandered, or are simply nonexistent. At its center are a Grandfather (a stormy and mysterious Troy West), who loves his almost saintly young granddaughter, Nell (Lorri Hamm, who manages to give this gentle creature some real spine), not wisely but too well. A compulsive gambler, he continually puts her at risk in his misguided attempts to amass a fortune that will secure her future. In the process, he becomes the victim of the ruthless and comically lascivious moneylender, Mr. Quilp (a brilliant, gargoylelike performance by the thread-thin Thomas J. Cox, who spends much of the show in a froglike position to conjure his character's crippled legs, and who must be nearly crippled himself by the end of the show). Grandfather and his Little Nell must flee the brutal city for the countryside, where they seek peace and charity, yet often come up short even there.
It is the gallery of rogues, eccentrics and rare gentle spirits that is far more crucial than the twisted journey itself here. There is special pleasure to be had in watching many of the actors assume multiple roles, often polar opposites in type. Consider Quilp's doll- like, timid, ferociously manipulated wife, Mrs. Quilp (played to marvelous, pitiful effect by Lisa Tejero), and then watch as Tejero does a fantastic about-face as Sally Brass, the angry dragon-lady sister and business partner of Quilp's fraudulent lawyer, Sampson Brass (a deceptively benign Andrew White). Pay attention, too, to the compassionate country schoolmaster who, as it turns out, is played by Cox in a complete about-face.
And who else but Dickens could conjure a character like Dick Swiveller (embodied to deliriously perfect effect by Lawrence E. DiStasi)? A feckless fellow whose permanently lapsed work ethic and misplaced sense of entitlement camouflage a good heart, he will end up saving and savoring the little housemaid he dubs The Marchioness (enchanting work by Elizabeth Ledo, who moves about like a little mouse before her transformation into a princess).
Meanwhile, on the road, Grandfather and Nell encounter a great many traveling performers, from a swindling vaudeville-style duo who run a Punch-and-Judy puppet show, to a waxworks museum owner, the good-hearted Mrs. Jarley (the wonderfully spirited Eve Breneman, who also is a hoot as Mrs. Quilp's opportunistic mother). The waxwork figures themselves are winningly brought to life by the actors.
Brian Sidney Bembridge's massive, jigsaw puzzle-like wooden set stretches against a long wall of the theater and serves both as the all-important city bridges and a warren of forbidding offices, shops, attics and cellars. T.J. Gerckens' painterly lighting tells a story all its own, with the characters periodically striking stunning silhouetted poses that suggest the hordes of London or the figures in a rural landscape.
Although a few questions remain unanswered when it's all over, the play's engaging epilogue, supplied by The Single Gentleman, provides a delightful "Where are they all now?" summing up. Some of them are dead. On this matter, too, Dickens is eloquent. Of course, all those immortalized by this writer need not worry. They live in the imagination and dance on in this wondrous "Curiosity Shop."

David Perez is fed up with the stereotypes in theater. And he has a theater company.
Saturday night at the EP Theatre, Perez's "Perks of Nudity" will become the first show offered by a new theater company dedicated to telling the stories of youth -- stories, he says, that are often ignored.
"A lot of times when you look at young characters on stage, they're being looked at through a reductive filter," he explains. "A lot of times, young people are not articulate, their vernacular is ridden with apathy. It's, for lack of a better term, dumbed-down language."
That language is often indicative of the characters as a whole, he continues.
"I see young people displaced and lost, not as active participants in their experience," Perez says. "A lot of times, we're not only stereotyped by interest but also by race. I mean, I'm a Hispanic gay man and I'm more into rock than any of my friends, but you don't see me [portrayed] in theater. It seems youth is [used as] a device rather than as [part of] a character with dimensions."
Enter the Pavement Group, the new theater company that is offering "Perks." Perez is its artistic director. Julia Dossett is the managing director, Brittany Barnes is the business manager and casting director, and Tim Schoen is the production manager and resident designer.
The group took shape last year when Perez, Dossett and Barnes were interns at Steppenwolf. Schoen, who was already working in Chicago, came to the group through mutual friends.
"We had skill sets that were very complementary -- some of us are directors, some of us are actors, we all have experience on the administrative side of things, so we were pretty confident that we could get going right away, be professional and do a good job," Dossett says.
"Our role is to make theater that people who don't always go to theater find compelling," she adds.

</file>

<file= AmE06_C16>

President Bush is fond of repeating, "We are fighting them over there so that we won't have to fight them here at home." As a slogan, this may be good politics. But as a counterterrorism strategy, it appears to be a disaster. Fighting them "over there" has since 2003 meant committing over one hundred thousand troops, hundreds of billions of dollars, and thousands of lives to a conflict in Iraq whose only clear connection to the "war on terror" has been its encouragement of terrorism. The US attack on Iraq has created the world's principal breeding and training ground for anti-American terrorists. Many highly informed commentators have argued that the war in Iraq, based at best on faulty intelligence and at worst on outright lies, was a major diversion from the real enemy - al-Qaeda and the terrorists loosely linked with it, or inspired by it - and that the war with Iraq has therefore made us less secure.
Daniel Benjamin and Steven Simon, counterterrorism experts at the National Security Council under President Clinton, argue in their new book, The Next Attack, that the problem is more deep-rooted than the administration's erroneous venture in Iraq. In their view, the Iraq war is a symptom of the Bush administration's obsession with fighting an offensive "war on terror," an obsession that has caused the administration to disregard the less glamorous but more crucial task of shoring up America's defenses against future attacks. Committed to an outmoded strategy directed at states rather than the loose-knit non-state terrorist movements that actually threaten us, the administration sought out a state to attack, and after an initial and justifiable campaign in Afghanistan, invaded Iraq. But when it comes to fighting the decentralized threat of fundamentalist Islamic terrorism, Benjamin and Simon maintain, the best defense is not a good offense, but a good defense.

Especially after the US and its local allies forced al-Qaeda out of Afghanistan, the threat of fundamentalist Islamic terrorism is not centralized, but globalized and dispersed. The subway bombings in Madrid and London in 2003 and 2005 were the work not of disciplined al-Qaeda agents acting on orders from above but of small bands of young men with little or no connection to al-Qaeda, and little or no previous record as terrorists. Benjamin and Simon see these attacks as signs of a "new breed of self-starting terrorist cells," and argue that the development of such cells has been vastly facilitated by the Internet. In 1998, they report, there were only twelve Web sites for terrorist groups; in 2005, there were 4,400. The Web sites spread both religious doctrine calling for violence and practical instructions for carrying it out. The consequences have been dire: according to the RANDCorporation, three quarters of all suicide bombings since 1968 took place in the four years after September 11.
Because the terrorist threat is decentralized and globalized, it cannot be fought by traditional military methods. There is no territory to take, no land to occupy, and, with few exceptions, no country to hold accountable. The target is constantly moving and growing. Benjamin and Simon suggest that we think of the terrorist threat as two concentric circles - a relatively small inner one consisting of committed terrorists, violently opposed to what they see as infidel Western governments and institutions, and a larger outer circle consisting of those susceptible of being moved to the inner circle. The challenge, they argue, is not only to find and incapacitate the inner circle, but also to reduce migration from the outer to the inner circle. Or, as Donald Rumsfeld asked in an October 2003 internal Pentagon memo, "Are we capturing, killing or deterring and dissuading more terrorists every day than the madrassas and the radical clerics are recruiting, training and deploying against us?"

Much of Benjamin and Simon's book concentrates on the war with Iraq, which they view as having played into the terrorists' hands. Drawing on their own experience and contacts when they were members of Clinton's National Security Agency, they retell the now-familiar story of how the Bush administration was bent on regime change in Iraq almost from the day it took office. It started planning for war against Iraq immediately after the terrorist attacks of September 11; pressured intelligence agencies to make a case for the invasion of Iraq; created its own ad hoc Counter Terrorism Evaluation Group, headed by Douglas Feith, undersecretary of defense for policy, to make the case when the intelligence agencies were reluctant to do so; and then failed to plan for the war's aftermath. According to Benjamin and Simon, administration officials, certain that the US would be welcomed with open arms, literally prohibited planners from even considering the problem of postwar security.
There is little question that the Iraq war, instead of supporting the struggle against terror, has weakened it. In February 2005, CIA Director Porter Goss told Congress that "Islamic extremists are exploiting the Iraqi conflict to recruit new anti-US jihadists," and those "who survive will leave Iraq experienced and focused on acts of urban terrorism. They represent a potential pool of contacts to build transnational terrorist cells, groups, and networks." The military analyst Anthony Cordesman has identified thirty-two "adaptations" to US strategy that the insurgents have successfully made since the war began, including "mixed attacks" in which one bomb follows another with some delay, in order to maximize injury to police and rescue workers; more sophisticated surveillance of US forces and their allies; improved infiltration of the Iraqi military and police forces; and increasingly deadly improvised explosive devices. The insurgents have obtained access to large caches of Saddam Hussein's arms that the US military failed to secure. And they have been able to demonstrate to the world their commitment and their willingness to die by daily attacks on the US and Iraqi military and police forces - many of them suicide attacks that are videotaped and promptly disseminated throughout the world via the Internet.
As Benjamin and Simon put it, the administration "failed the first test of military leadership. They did not know who their real enemy was." The authors cite the constant bombing and heavy ground fire of the "shock and awe" campaign at the beginning of the Iraq war as an illustration of the problem. The bombing was effective for a few weeks in subduing Saddam Hussein. But if the enemy is a terrorist ideology spread throughout the Muslim diaspora, a "shock and awe" strategy is very likely to backfire by reinforcing the enemy's description of the United States as an aggressive force without regard for the lives of innocent Muslims.
National security policy, the authors argue, should reject the model of a military "war on terror," and instead adopt an intelligence-based approach that (1) seeks to identify, capture, and disrupt terrorists; (2) safeguards the most dangerous weapons to keep them out of terrorists' hands; (3) identifies and protects the most vulnerable targets in the US; and (4) reduces the creation of new terrorists by addressing the grievances that drive people to extreme violence in the first place.
The Bush administration's stubborn adherence to the traditional conception of war has caused it to disregard more important and effective defensive actions. The administration, Benjamin and Simon write, has failed to safeguard nuclear weapons materials in the former Soviet Union; failed to identify and protect the most vulnerable targets within the United States, such as water supplies; failed to work effectively with private businesses that are responsible for other vulnerable targets, such as chemical plants; and failed to increase in any significant measure the monitoring of container cargo at shipping ports, of which only one in twenty is inspected. According to the authors, the FBI is still so reluctant to adapt its methods to the realities of terrorism that it has used its intelligence "analysts" to take out the garbage and answer phones, the result being a very large turnover of employees who should be piecing together scraps of intelligence in order to find terrorists and disrupt their plans.
Benjamin and Simon's critique of homeland security is largely corroborated by the bipartisan 9/11 Commission's assessment in December 2005 of the Bush administration's progress in fulfilling the forty-one recommendations in the commission's Final Report, released in July 2004. Grading the administration on each of its recommended reforms, the 9/11 Commission gave it five F's, twelve D's, eight C's, several incompletes, and only one A - . Among the measures that received either an F or a D are some of the most basic requirements of security. The administration was given a D for its identification of vulnerable potential targets, as well as for its efforts to secure weapons of mass destruction, its screening of checked luggage and cargo for explosives, its arrangements for sharing information among intelligence agencies, and its support of secular educational reform in Muslim countries. It received an F for, among other things, its failure to develop common standards with other nations for detaining and prosecuting terrorist suspects as well as for its failure to establish an effective program to screen airline passengers for potential terrorists.
2.
Benjamin and Simon's diagnosis of the Bush administration as fixated on outdated conceptions of war is ironic, given the administration's insistence that "everything changed" after September 11, and that it has adopted an entirely new model for fighting global terror. For example, the Pentagon's National Security Strategy, issued in September 2002, advanced a new and controversial justification for going to war. It argued that in light of the threats now posed by weapons of mass destruction, war is justified not only when the nation is attacked or faces imminent attack - the only justifications for war recognized by international law - but also when the US faces a more speculative but potentially catastrophic future threat. This was the theory for the Iraq war. Since the administration could not argue that an attack by Iraq on the United States was imminent, it contended that the potential for attack with weapons of mass destruction at some undetermined time in the future was sufficient to justify a "preventive" war.
The administration has invoked a similar "preventive" rationale to defend the use of cruel, inhuman, and degrading treatment to interrogate al-Qaeda and other prisoners, maintaining that the information it obtains may help prevent future attacks. It has argued that the conflict with al-Qaeda is a new kind of war, and therefore traditionally recognized rules of war, such as affording detainees a hearing to decide whether they are in fact enemy combatants, and treating detainees humanely, do not apply.
Within the US, Attorney General John Ashcroft repeatedly promoted what he labeled a new "paradigm of prevention" in law enforcement. When the enemy is willing to commit suicide to inflict mass casualties on civilians, he argued, the USmust act preemptively to prevent the next attack from occurring. On this theory, the administration subjected 80,000 Arab and Muslim immigrants to fingerprinting and registration, sought out 8,000 Arab and Muslim men for FBIinterviews, and imprisoned over 5,000 foreign nationals in antiterrorism preventive detention initiatives. As part of this program, the government adopted an aggressive strategy of arrest and prosecution, holding people on minor charges - in fact pretexts - such as immigration violations, credit card fraud, or false statements, or, when it had no charges at all, as "material witnesses."

Using a similar preventive rationale, the administration demanded, and got, expansive new powers in the USA Patriot Act, and since then the FBI reportedly has used that act to issue 30,000 "national security letters" a year to businesses across the country. These letters, issued without judicial review, require Internet and telecommunications companies and financial institutions to disclose information about their customers. The letters prohibit the recipients from telling anyone about the FBI's request. Most recently, the administration has advanced the preventive rationale to justify the National Security Agency's warrantless wiretapping of persons in the United States, without congressional or judicial approval, pursuant to an executive order adopted in secret and in contravention of a criminal prohibition on such surveillance.

</file>

<file= AmE06_C17>

Last year Claudia Emerson, a poet who teaches at Virginia's University of Mary Washington, published a collection called "Late Wife": one of those quarter-inch-thick volumes whose spines you cock your head to read on the six-foot shelves. Louisiana State University Press gave it a lovely cover, which went on a tiny number of copies. The poems had appeared in magazines ranging from small but prestigious--Southern Review, Shenandoah--to obscure: Smartish Pace, Tar River Poetry, Visions International. "Late Wife" is such a smart, intense, satisfying and approachable book that readers will return to it for decades. But you probably would never have heard of it--and certainly not be reading about it here--if it hadn't won this year's Pulitzer Prize. When the news broke and the book was in demand, "Late Wife" was already long gone from the stores.
Last week you could finally get a copy of the book at a Borders in Manhattan. (Two, actually, the day we went in. The next day, the other was gone.) Emerson's publisher won't give figures, but allows that the post-Pulitzer run was 20 times as large as the first printing. Emerson says it's reprinted 14,000, so--quick math here--this gives us a first printing of ... 700 copies? Given the expectations for poetry, that was probably realistic. Some poets must think it's a hell of a note that it takes a Pulitzer just to get their work read. But Emerson, 49, knows the drill. "I just accepted that a long time ago," she says. "We could have a broader audience, but I think people have gotten afraid of poetry. I met a woman in my hometown [Chatham, Va.; population: 1,338] who said mine was the first book of poetry she'd ever read. She was excited because she understood it, and she asked me to recommend another one."
It was there in far western Virginia that Emerson, who'd once been an English major at U.Va., started to write while running a lonesome used bookstore and driving a rural mail route in her Chevy S-10 pickup. ("Red and white. With a sign on the back.") Her poems are intellectually and emotionally complicated, but the language is plain and untricky. Here's the end of one, about a bat in a bedroom: "So you killed it with the broom,/cursing, sweeping the air. I wanted/you to do it--until you did." The complication: it's titled "Metaphor," and is part of a sequence about a failing marriage. So OK, great. Thanks to a good Pulitzer jury and probably some luck, "Late Wife" will get at least some of the readers it deserves. But it makes you wonder what you might be missing.
Clint Eastwood's tough, smart, achingly sad "Flags of Our Fathers" is about three anointed heroes of World War II--three of the men who appeared, backs to the camera, in the legendary Joe Rosenthal photograph of six soldiers hoisting the American flag on Iwo Jima. It was an image that electrified a nation at war. The military wanted these men to be larger than life to raise desperately needed money for the war effort by selling war bonds. So the government, sensing, as one character says in Eastwood's film, "that a picture can win or lose a war," plucked them off Iwo Jima, where the 35-day battle was still raging (and where the other three men in the photo had been killed), and paraded them in front of cheering crowds. It was all for a good cause, but it was pure PR, and it ate away at the insides of these media-proclaimed heroes, who believed that the men who deserved the glory were the ones who had given their lives.
Watching Eastwood's harrowing film, which raises pointed questions about how heroes, and wars, are packaged and sold, it's hard not to think his movie is a commentary on today. Images of Jessica Lynch pop into your brain. And when Sgt. Mike Strank (Barry Pepper), the unit's leader, is killed by friendly fire, your thoughts turn to Pat Tillman, the ex-football star whose death was initially rewritten to suit the mythical role the military, and the media, had decided he must play. "When people ask me if this movie is applicable to today," Eastwood told NEWSWEEK, "I say, 'Well, you know, everything is ... Everyone's distorting things, just as they distorted them then'."
Eastwood wasn't thinking about Lynch when he re-created Iwo Jima's brutal battles on the black sands of Iceland, but he acknowledges the aptness of the analogy. "That poor girl. She was just a teenager. The military and their publicity people decided she had to be Wonder Woman, gunning down tons of people with her machine gun, when she didn't fire a shot. They desperately wanted her to be that." Eastwood, the former Republican mayor of Carmel, Calif., is no dove, but he does question the premise behind the American undertaking in the Middle East. "I'm not one of those idealistic people who think democracy has to be for everyone," he says. "That's naive on our part. I don't know if they want democracy."
"Flags of Our Fathers," an epic both raw and contemplative, is neither a flag-waving war movie nor a debunking. It's an investigation into the nature of heroism, real and manufactured, and of our deep-seated need to avert our eyes from the horror of war by gazing up at the more comforting vision of the heroic. It ponders the way images are used to manipulate reality. (Eastwood's "Letters From Iwo Jima," which will be released in February, follows the Japanese side of the battle--largely in Japanese, with subtitles.) Working from an intricately structured screenplay by Paul Haggis and William Broyles, Eastwood crosscuts between the present, where the survivors are still haunted by the war's deadliest fight, to the battle for Iwo Jima itself, where more than 20,000 Japanese and 6,821 Americans died, to the banquet halls and football stadiums where Navy Corpsman John (Doc) Bradley (Ryan Phillippe), 19-year-old Rene Gagnon (Jesse Bradford) and Native American Ira Hayes (Adam Beach) are wined, dined, celebrated--and ultimately discarded.
The most famous member of the trio, Hayes (whose life was made into 1961's "The Outsider," with Tony Curtis), was the most tragic. Subjected to the constant, casual racism of the day, tormented by guilt at being singled out when he believed he should be fighting alongside his buddies, he descends into alcoholism and self-destructs before our eyes. Eastwood's movie arrives at a complex conclusion about the blurry intersection of war and propaganda. Perhaps Winston Churchill expressed the ambivalence best: "In wartime truth is so precious that she should always be attended by a bodyguard of lies."
The practice of turning wartime exploits into convenient fictions (or warriors into gods) is hardly a recent invention. There's the Iliad, for one. But Achilles, as far as we know, didn't have PR handlers. The great American country-boy celebrity of World War I, Alvin York, was a true hero, but his sharpshooting exploits were wildly embellished in serialized magazine articles. (It's no coincidence that when Gary Cooper immortalized him in 1941's "Sergeant York" we were on the brink of another war.) The deeper into the bloody century we went--as photography, film and television increasingly entered into the equation--the more inextricably the war machine and the public-relations machine became entwined. But if the wheels meshed smoothly in World War II, they ran off the tracks in Vietnam, where the pictures flooding in--self-immolated priests, a naked girl fleeing from a napalm attack--turned a country against the war. The great lesson the military learned was the importance of controlling the images of combat. Hence the heavily sanitized aerial-view depiction of the gulf war, an "impersonal" videogame war waged by mythical "smart bombs." Then came the strategy of "embedding" journalists with the troops in Iraq, which both controlled the reporters' access and made them feel part of the military effort. Images of returning coffins were initially banned.
After the embarrassing revelations of the fictions surrounding Private Lynch--and after the mother of Pat Tillman waged her angry fight against a recalcitrant Pentagon to find out the truth about her son's death--the administration has retreated from the business of selling heroes. The iconic images that were meant to stir a nation, such as the toppling of Saddam's statue, had short shelf lives. Or, in the case of the president's "Mission Accomplished" strut across a battle-ship, they have been used against him.
It hasn't been a conflict in which photographers or network-news producers have captured the "picture that can win or lose a war" in Iraq. It was a shutterbug soldier who thought it would be cool to document the fun and games at Abu Ghraib. What the Pentagon didn't foresee, and couldn't control, was the rise of new media--the unfiltered images popping up on the Web, the mini-DV cams put in the hands of soldiers that emerge in the recent documentary "The War Tapes." We don't see much of the real war on network TV, but the unauthorized documentaries--"The Ground Truth," "Gunner Palace" and many more--come pouring out. Just as more people think that they get a straighter story from Jon Stewart's mock news reports than from traditional outlets, it's been the "unofficial" media that have sabotaged the PR wizards in the Pentagon. The sophistication of the spinners has been matched by the sophistication of a media-savvy public.
It was easier to control the way we looked at war back in the days of "Flags of Our Fathers." Eastwood himself was "raised on '40s war movies," most of which were propaganda. But that was a fight that united us as a nation. Now an administration that seems to create its own reality is discovering that reality bites back.

It's three in the morning and thick clouds of dust roll across the rural Mexican dirt road like New England fog. Nearby, strings of bare-bulbed lights illuminate an outdoor fiesta where dozens of Tecate locals in cowboy boots and chunky heels dance to the rowdy ranchero band Los Incomparables. But not everyone's having fun. A cameraman on the perimeter of the set has had it with all the errant chickens underfoot. "Get the f--- out of here!" he orders, but this chicken doesn't speak English. "Silencio, por favor!" yells a stage manager from the other side of the clapboard fence, and the bird stops in its tracks.
Communication breakdowns and cultural rifts drive Alejandro Gonzlez Irritu's "Babel," a film that spans three continents, seven languages and many leagues' worth of buried emotion. It's his latest in a trilogy that includes "Amores Perros" and "21 Grams," but this time, the Mexican director's overlapping stories have gone global. Two Moroccan brothers testing their dad's rifle accidentally shoot an American tourist named Susan (Cate Blanchett), and in an instant dozens of lives are intertwined. Susan and her husband, Richard (Brad Pitt), are forced to rely on rural villagers--and each other--as she fights for her life. The Arab boys' humble family pays the price when the shooting is interpreted as a terrorist incident with international implications. Meanwhile, the American couple's children are supposedly safe at home in California, except that their Mexican nanny, Amelia (Adriana Barraza), has taken them to Baja for her son's wedding, where she runs into trouble at the border, thanks to her smart-mouthed nephew Santiago (Gael Garca Bernal), who's chauffeuring her around. In Tokyo, the deaf-mute teen Chieko (Rinko Kikuchi) and her father, a businessman who once gave his rifle away to a local on a Moroccan hunting trip, are perilously drifting apart after her mother's suicide. "I kept saying to myself, 'If this doesn't work, it will be one of the most horrible disasters in film history'," says Irritu. "It's four short stories that have nothing to do with each other. There's no one apparent connection, so it all could look like a National Geographic special on global cultures."
Irritu has been resting easier since "Babel" won best director at Cannes this past May.

</file>

