<file= AmE06_B01>

THE HISTORY of industrial pollution of the nation's land, air, and water is by now so well known that the only surprising aspect of the report last week about the cancer cluster in Ashland is that the worst of the poisonous discharges happened so recently. The late 19th and early 20th centuries were notorious for manufacturers with a public-be-damned attitude, but the Nyanza chemical and dye facility began operations there in 1965. It was freely dumping arsenic, heavy metals, and carcinogenic solvents into waste lagoons while US astronauts were walking on the moon in 1969.
That landing on the moon was followed by a long overdue attention to the fouling of this planet. Congress passed the Clean Water Act in 1972 and the Superfund law, for cleanup of such sites, in 1980. A report like the one the state Department of Public Health released this week on the Ashland pollution and its apparent link to cancers in that town should give new impetus to efforts in Congress to strengthen the financial underpinnings of the Superfund law.
Establishing a causal connection between toxic discharges and specific cases of cancer is always difficult. The evidence in the DPH report is strongest in regard to the five soft-tissue sarcomas diagnosed over a two-year period in Ashland residents younger than 35. All five persons, two of whom died of the disease, were known to have played in the contaminated water that eventually made Ashland one of the 10 most polluted Superfund sites.
According to epidemiologists, the average occurrence of such cancers in the United States would be two cases per year in a population of 100,000. Since Ashland in 1970 had a population of just 8,882, it should have seen far fewer than even one case in a year. The concentration of soft-tissue sarcomas in the town could have been a fluke, but there is now a serious study saying it was not.
Though there is work still to be done in cleaning up an underground plume of Ashland pollution, the project is proceeding apace. That is sadly not the case with many other Superfund sites because Congress has refused to renew the provision in the 1980 law that taxed companies in the high-polluting chemical and petroleum industries to pay for the cleanup of sites where the original polluter has gone out of business or cannot be identified.
Without such a fund, the US Environmental Protection Agency has had to seek annual appropriations for the cleanup of such "orphan" operations, and Congress has refused to give the agency the money needed to do the work expeditiously. Ashland is a grim reminder of what is at stake when Congress puts the interests of its campaign donors in industry ahead of the public interest.
CONGRESS HAS TAKEN a bold step to update the nation's immigration laws and enhance security. By advancing sensible legislation on Monday, the Senate Judiciary Committee also rebuked the House, whose bill called for merciless and unwise security crackdowns.
Immigration is a kind of Cinderella story. The economy hums with little mention of the girl doing its grueling work. Now the country is looking at that girl. She's the millions of undocumented immigrants who cook, clean, pick fruit, and work construction. They live outside the law but pay taxes. The economy would buckle if they were all deported. Still, their request for legal relief is often met with outrage: People who violate immigration law must not be rewarded.
But the other outrage is that the United States is using these workers, relying on their labor and on the taxes they pay, while leaving them in the legal shadows.
"The immigration system doesn't work for anyone," Senator Edward Kennedy said this week in a statement. "There is virtually no legal way for a foreign worker to enter the country and take a full-time, year-round job." This guarantees an illegal flow of workers.
A bill filed by Kennedy and Arizona's Republican Senator John McCain was the spine for the comprehensive legislation adopted by the Judiciary Committee. It would increase border security, create a temporary guest worker program, and offer a chance to become a legal resident.
The bill wisely does not include language that would make it a criminal offense, rather than a civil one, to live here illegally. And it would not punish anyone for giving humanitarian aid to illegal immigrants freeing Catholic Charities, among others, from the specter of being prosecuted.
The public should reject the hype. Inflammatory rhetoric about immigrants coming here to steal jobs, sell drugs, and plant bombs is false and obscures real problems. The American workforce is at risk, thanks to a widespread lack of education and skills. And national security isn't strong enough. But building big fences along the border won't fill the big holes in national intelligence. Homeland defense can't just be tougher. It also has to be smarter.
The Judiciary Committee bill can work. It would give illegal immigrants a way to work legally and to make amends by paying fines. It would protect the economy. And it would enhance national safety by increasing the ranks of law enforcement and by expediting deportations. Rational, safe change has been championed by people in rallies across the country, including one in Boston on Monday night. The full Senate and the House should heed these cries for fairness.
MASSACHUSETTS is an expensive state; housing, transportation, fuel, and healthcare all drive up the cost of living. Luckily, Massachusetts is also a wealthy state; the second wealthiest in the nation, with a median income of more than $52,000, or about $25 an hour.
Unless you happen to be making the $6.75 minimum wage in Massachusetts, in which case you are not so lucky.
The idea that a person can be working full time and still be living under the poverty line a reality for millions of Americans is a national shame. But for workers in wealthy Massachusetts to be earning sub-poverty wages is a sin. Today's minimum wage, which has not been adjusted since 2001, leaves a full-time worker $2,560 below the $16,600 annual poverty line for a family of three.
A bill to raise the minimum wage by $1.50 an hour over two years has been stalled in the Legislature, where discredited old arguments about negative effects on job growth are heard. Earlier this month a House committee watered down the proposal so that the wage would rise by just $1 and, importantly, not be indexed to inflation. Obviously, purchasing power is eroded by inflation. If the minimum wage set in 1968 had been properly indexed it would be $9.23 by now, well above the $8.25 in the original bill.
James Marzilli, the Arlington Democrat who sponsored the original House bill, is right to call the new version "entirely inadequate." If the committee bill is enacted without indexing, the value of the new wage will already be below the current level by the time it is implemented in 2007. It is hard to see the point of going through this exercise only to have workers fall behind again. Other economic measures society considers important Social Security payments, most tax brackets, even the poverty line are automatically indexed; why should low-wage workers have to beg for increases every few years?
There is no evidence that the last four increases in the minimum wage led to large job losses. Unemployment has gone up recently in Massachusetts, but the economic sectors most affected by the minimum wage hospitality, leisure, and health services are growing, and few economists project a reversal due to wage increases.
Contrary to the claims of opponents, the minimum wage is not confined to teenagers with after-school jobs. According to the Massachusetts Budget and Policy Center, a nonpartisan think tank, 154,000 people in the state are earning less than the proposed $8.25 right now. Another 329,000 would also benefit from an increase because of ripple effects. Many of them are the sole breadwinners in their families, and 59 percent are women.
The poor are forever being lectured about the dignity of work as an alternative to welfare. A state as rich as Massachusetts ought to be able to make work pay.
US MILITARY officials have long been concerned that mistreatment of prisoners at Guantanamo or at US-run prisons in Iraq and Afghanistan could boomerang against this country when US soldiers are taken prisoner in future conflicts.
But the primary reason for the United States and its Iraqi allies to ban prisoner torture and detain only those who are provably guilty of terrorist activities will always be that the failure to do so is morally wrong; it will also hurt the United States and the new Iraqi regime in world opinion and in quelling sectarianism within Iraq.
Yesterday, Amnesty International reported that prisoner abuse continues at facilities in Iraq maintained both by US forces and the Iraqi government. Last year and this year, the human rights organization interviewed released prisoners, the relatives of current prisoners, and lawyers involved in prisoner cases. It found that electric shock and beatings with plastic cables are being used in interrogations and that thousands of inmates are being held without charge or trial.
US authorities denied the allegations and said all their detainees are given a document explaining the reasons they are being held. An official of the Iraqi Interior Ministry also rejected the allegations, but Iraq's acting minister for human rights, Nermeen Othman, told the BBC that there have been cases of torture and that the government is trying to stop it. Last November, the Iraqi government admitted that 170 detainees at one Interior jail showed signs of torture and malnutrition.
On Friday, US officials complied with a Freedom of Information Act request from the Associated Press and released 5,000 documents from Guantanamo hearings. Some detainees defiantly supported extremism, but many swore they were innocent rounded up by persons seeking US bounties. US officials say most of the 490 still there present a real threat if released, but just 10 have been charged with criminal offenses.
In one transcript provided to the AP, US officials accused an Afghan of being the Taliban governor of a province or of working for the governor. He denied it, saying he was a victim of mistaken identity, and told the presiding colonel to contact the governor to confirm his account. No, the colonel said, that's the Afghan's responsibility a demand both unrealistic and outrageous, trampling America's treasured presumption of innocence. If this exchange is typical of how US officials decide whether to continue holding prisoners, it is not surprising that a United Nations commission condemned conditions there last month. At Guantanamo and in Iraq, the United States undermines its claim to the moral high ground when it does not hold itself and the new Iraq government to the highest human rights standards.
But exporting democracy has proved difficult in Iraq, and the risks became all too obvious with the Hamas landslide in Palestinian elections.
Bush also focused on healthcare, recommending expanded use of health savings accounts, high-deductible plans that would allow individuals to save for medical costs in tax-free accounts. But the idea has proved no more palatable than the partial privatization of Social Security that Bush rode to its death last year. Even if more people signed up, it would do little to expand coverage. Bush claimed last night that government is "meeting [its] responsibility" to help provide health care to the poor and the elderly, forgetting the uncovered working poor, whose numbers have increased steadily during his tenure.
"The American economy is preeminent" in the world, he said, ignoring the huge budget and trade deficits that make the nation increasingly beholden to China and other foreign powers.
"Our educated, hard-working, ambitious people" give the United States its greatest global advantage, Bush said last night, but in fact he is squeezing college loans and has underfunded the No Child Left Behind law so deeply that governors of both parties are protesting.

</file>

<file= AmE06_B02>

OUR OPINION: PATIENTS NEED MORE DISCLOSURE, STRICT CONFLICT RULES When a doctor gives advice to a patient, there should not be even a smidgen of doubt that the advice is based primarily on what is best for the patient. Yet conflict rules are so lax that doctors often have relationships - personal or financial - with laboratories, drug companies, medical suppliers and others that could affect their advice to patients or, heaven forbid, the medical outcome of the drugs or procedures they recommend. Girlfriend hired This is why the situation with University of Miami cardiologist Alberto Interian Jr., who is romantically involved with a sales representative of a company that sells heart-implant devices, is so disturbing. A Miami Herald story last week described how Dr. Interian asked vendors of different brands of the device to hire his girlfriend - and appeared to shift business to the company that agreed. Audits by UM and by Jackson Memorial Hospital, where Dr. Interian also practices, documented a sharp rise in sales of the device to the company the woman represented. Investigators for the Miami-Dade County Commission on Ethics and Public Trust found that the relationship constituted ``unethical behavior.'' However, the commission didn't file a formal complaint because it lacks jurisdiction to discipline a UM employee. As for UM, the school has demoted Dr. Interian and has since tightened its ethics rules. UM's policy now discourages personal relationships that can create a potential conflict. In a telephone conversation, Dr. Interian adamantly defended his behavior, saying that he disclosed the personal relationship to Jackson officials. Besides, he said, ``Most of my patients know about the relationship . . . and they haven't said a thing about it.'' Dr. Interian is a well-known and highly regarded expert in cardiac-rhythm ailments. His situation points out how difficult it can be to separate a doctor's personal interests from the interests of patients. Patients are likely to develop a bond with their doctor, and to trust him, long before they ever become aware of a doctor's financial connections or personal ties with vendors and drug companies. Financial reward This is why it is important for medical gatekeepers - hospitals, medical associations, healthcare providers, state and federal governments and the doctors themselves - to identify and discourage potential conflicts and require that doctors disclose their personal and financial ties. UM is not alone in trying to fashion policies - albeit belatedly in this instance - that regulate doctors' behavior. Reformers and healthcare providers nationwide worry that a doctor's advice might be influenced more by the potential of a financial reward than what is best for patients. Doctors interact with patients when they are desperate, sick, in pain or otherwise vulnerable. Patients need the protection of greater disclosure and tougher ethics rules.
Not long after Gov. Charlie Crist appointed him to head the state's Department of Juvenile Justice, Walt McNeil put himself on the record as recognizing what many advocates for troubled youths have long known. DJJ Secretary McNeil said that the state's juvenile-justice system is ''broken'' and needs fixing. Mr. McNeil, a former Tallahassee police chief, has an uphill challenge.
Perennially underfunded
Part of the problem is that the DJJ -- which contracts 85 percent of its programs to private providers -- has been perennially underfunded. Last year the Legislature identified a $100 million deficit in DJJ's budget and allocated an extra $21 million, which upgraded salaries and benefits of providers' direct-care staff. A study found that the turnover rate for these staffers was 55 percent, prompting a crisis for providers. Some of DJJ's requests for proposals have drawn no bidders or have been canceled because of a lack of experienced bidders. The reason is money, or lack thereof. Though the Legislature faces a revenue shortfall this year, it should not forget the remaining $79 million deficit at DJJ. Advocates, acknowledging the shortfall, are asking for $45 million new dollars for next year.
One way you know that DJJ needs fixing is that, even though violent crime overall is down, the state has one of the country's highest rates of trying juveniles in adult court. If DJJ were more effective at turning around troubled youth, fewer of them would be committing new crimes serious enough, or frequently enough, to land them in adult court. So while more money would help DJJ, Mr. McNeil needs to identify the most effective treatment and rehabilitation programs and be sure they are emphasized.
Also, laws passed in reaction to a 1990s crime wave that included several killings of tourists by teenagers toughened up the state's attitude toward juvenile delinquents. It's time to revisit some of those changes.
• Restore judges' authority to decide if a juvenile should be tried as an adult. Right now, state prosecutors make this choice. While most prosecutors act responsibly and judiciously in bringing adult charges against a juvenile, a judge should ultimately decide the youth's fate in court. A judge should also determine a juvenile's competency to stand trial.
• Restore blended sentencing, in which a judge can impose a combination of juvenile and adult sentences for a juvenile who may have gotten in trouble one too many times, but appears salvageable. The adult sentence could be withheld as an incentive for the youth to stick with the juvenile program and straighten up.
The goal is twofold: public safety, of course, but also taking steps to intervene and rehabilitate juvenile offenders before they become career criminals.
Up in Tallahassee, it's beginning to look a lot like 2006. With only a week left in the regular session, tough issues like property- tax reform and insurance reform remain tied up in knots. With each passing day, it becomes more likely that any resolution will be a hurried, half-baked affair. Lawmakers shouldn't let this happen -- again.
Floridians literally can't afford a replay of last year's session, when the most pressing issue -- wind- storm-insurance reform -- was left for the last day. Predictably, the final version failed to provide any real relief from exorbitantly high rates. Legislators came back home with lame excuses: Well, you see, we were handed a bill on the last day of the session on a take-it- or-leave-it basis and, gosh, we had no choice but to vote in favor of it because we were told it was the best the leadership could do. Special session
In the end, homeowners had to wait almost an entire year until newly inaugurated Gov. Charlie Crist called a special session in January that led to the first real rollback in rates in well over a decade. But that does not mean that Florida's insurance system has been fixed. Important issues, such as expanding the state- run insurance company's ability to compete with private companies, were left for this session. And wouldn't you know it? With only days to go in the regular session, that little item hasn't been resolved yet.
Understandably, property-tax reform has received much more attention this year because Florida's tax structure hasn't been overhauled in nearly 20 years. Some version of tax reform is likely to be approved in the next few days, but it should not be pushed forward at the last minute if the House and Senate are at odds, which is where things stand as of today. Senate has doubts
The House version provides far more "relief," but relies on a provision that would try to compensate for eliminating property taxes by raising sales taxes. The Senate has its doubts, which we share. If there is no agreement, it would not be the end of the world because the Taxation and Budget Reform Commission is examining the issue and could come up with its own thoughtful recommendations.
Insurance reform, however, can't wait. There's already been one special session, and Gov. Crist is unlikely to call another. A ''glitch bill'' that fixes the more obvious problems in the reforms approved earlier this year -- such as mandating that all claims be paid within 90 days -- still awaits final action. So does another bill that deals with improvements in Citizens Property Insurance.
We are just five weeks away from the onset of a hurricane season that promises to be active. That should be incentive enough to make insurance reform a priority for state lawmakers.
The mess at Broward County's ChildNet could be worse in only one way: It could involve harm to some of the 1,000-plus young charges of the private foster-care agency.
But so far, at least, the mounting problems involve job abuses -- charges of theft and fraud and unqualified workers -- but no child abuse. There could be more trouble ahead, though. The FBI served search warrants at ChildNet's offices this month but hasn't revealed its investigation's target. Acrimonious relations
The Department of Children & Families pays ChildNet $65 million a year to operate the county's foster-care system. ChildNet is one of 20 private agencies in the state created four years ago to take over Florida's troubled foster care. State- wide performance has been mixed, but ChildNet was considered one of the better agencies. Nevertheless, relations between DCF and ChildNet have been acrimonious at times. In light of ChildNet's disappointing miscues, more accountability and transparency from these agencies are needed -- and DCF must sharpen its oversight without becoming overbearingly bureaucratic toward the private caregivers.
In testimony before the Florida Senate Children and Families Committee Tuesday, DCF Secretary Bob Butterworth blamed Peter Balitsaris, ChildNet's CEO until he was fired by the agency's board on April 13 after an internal investigation uncovered many irregularities. "The CEO was not accountable. Every time we tried to get information, we were turned down. We were concerned they were not meeting the [standards] we were supposed to meet," Mr. Butterworth told the committee.
Could DCF have tried harder to obtain information? Perhaps. Certainly, though, ChildNet violated hiring standards. Two recently fired employees in charge of facilities management and security have extensive criminal records -- one was imprisoned for manslaughter. There are charges of theft of $6,000 in Wal-Mart gift cards intended for foster children and an agency computer that contained sensitive information. There are also suspicions that someone took kickbacks from an auto shop that didn't repair ChildNet vehicles it contracted to fix. 
CFO is fired
Personnel problems traveled around ChildNet's food chain. Its CFO, also fired by the board, is accused of submitting falsified invoices to the DCF for illegal payments. Some 20 ChildNet workers may have invalid or suspended driver licenses, disqualifying them from transporting children.
ChildNet, which had shown much promise, needs new professional leadership and a housecleaning. At the same time, the DCF needs to find the right oversight balance for the foster caregivers -- as in vigilance but not oppression.

The sudden death of an apparently healthy Panama City teen at a military-style youth lockup prompted a prominent South Florida lawmaker to demand Tuesday that the controversial programs be shut down, while state officials say they will reexamine the policies that allow the use of physical force against children in state care.
Martin Lee Anderson, 14, who stopped breathing less than three hours after being admitted to the Bay County Sheriff's boot camp last week, is the most recent Florida child to die in the custody of state youth corrections officials under questionable circumstances.
"These places are terrible, they have been shown to be unsuccessful, and they should be shut down, " said state Rep. Gustavo "Gus" Barreiro, a Miami Beach Republican who chairs the House Criminal Justice Appropriations Committee, and heads a separate committee that is investigating the treatment of youth in state care. "I think they should be eliminated."
The Department of Juvenile Justice, which contracts with counties to operate the boot camps, will review all the sheriff's offices' policies, said Cynthia Lorenzo, a DJJ spokeswoman in Tallahassee. Lorenzo declined to discuss the case.
Said Rep. Dan Gelber, a Miami Beach Democrat also on the oversight committee: "How is it that we are incapable of simply preserving the lives we are entrusted with?"

</file>

<file= AmE06_B03>

Last month, Melissa Roderick, a University of Chicago professor and leading authority on school reform, arrived at a startling conclusion: The traditional measurements of the nation's progress in improving education, which use race and income as markers, are flawed. 
Why? Because boys and girls coming from the same race, families, incomes, neighborhoods and schools are turning out very differently. The girls are doing better. 
Nearly half of all boys graduate from Chicago Public Schools with less than a 2.0 average, compared with a fourth of the girls. Only 8% of the system's African-American boys have a 3.0 average -- a key indicator of the ability to complete college -- compared with 18% of the girls. 
The numbers are jarring, which explains Roderick's revelation that Chicago schools won't improve without strategies that focus on boys' achievement -- the same kinds of strategies used so successfully to boost math and science skills among girls. 
Roderick is on to something important. Some researchers contend the educational gender gap is strictly a function of race and class. Those are undoubtedly factors, particularly for boys from poor, single-parent families growing up without father figures. But anyone thinking gender issues affect only minorities or the poor needs to go 15 miles from downtown Chicago to the Wilmette public schools, one of the nation's wealthiest and most successful districts. 
There, educators discovered that targeting boys -- who were badly trailing the girls in achievement -- was the smartest strategy for boosting overall student performance. This school year, Wilmette boosted its hiring of male teachers and trained teachers in classroom strategies that benefit boys. 
Other educators are beginning to wake up to the gender problem. What's needed is a national task force, put together by Education Secretary Margaret Spellings, that would consider doing for boys what was done for girls a decade ago. 
In addition to being a matter of fairness, a shift to boy- oriented policies has the potential to produce other gains: 
*Raise parents' and teachers' awareness. Parents with struggling boys often are told not to worry because boys are slow to pick up reading skills and math is their strong point. That conventional wisdom is outdated. Many boys don't catch up in reading, and they don't always do better in math. 
This month, a Massachusetts education think tank, the Rennie Center, reported that 41% of girls in the state are proficient or better in reading, compared with 29% of boys. Paul Reville, who runs the center, said the biggest surprise was finding that girls outperform boys in math as well. That shouldn't be a surprise: Reading is a key link to understanding math and science. 
*Boost college graduations. Lagging literacy skills result in many boys ending up unprepared for college, which in turn explains declining percentages of men on campus. Currently, 133 women graduate from college for every 100 men. 
If boys can't make it through high school, they certainly can't make it through college. For better or worse, in today's information- based economy, college has become the new high school. 
What's striking about the gender gaps is that most school districts do little or nothing about them. In his survey of Massachusetts schools, Reville kept expecting to find a school carrying out reforms that target boys, as Wilmette did. He never found one. 
Reville, like Roderick, is an education outsider. Until the insiders -- teachers, principals and superintendents -- recognize the problem, too many boys will continue to flounder. 
Agog. No doubt about it, the $1.65 billion Google is paying for YouTube is serious money. YouTube is not yet 2 years old, isn't profitable and employs just 67 people. If Wal-Mart were worth as much per employee as Google is paying for YouTube, its stock would be valued at $37 trillion, which comes to about three times America's gross domestic product. 
Wretched excess? Perhaps. Dot-com-insanity 2.0? Maybe. But it's hard to look at Google's purchase and not see something more than a company with too much money to spend. 
Like iPods and TiVo before it, YouTube is rapidly destroying the paradigm television has followed since the 1940s, in which programming is presented for viewing at a scheduled time. It is also turning starving artists into video moguls and making video on the Web a hassle-free experience. Yes, there are good reasons why Google would go gaga for it. 
For the uninitiated, YouTube is a site where people post material, ranging from their own campy videos of cats pawing a spinning turntable to copied segments of major network television shows. It is such a phenomenally successful platform (by one measure, it's the world's 10th most popular website) that some television content companies are treating it as unstoppable. Companies ranging from CBS to Sony, many of the same outfits that fought music file sharing sites such as Grokster, are signing licensing deals with YouTube to allow their material to be posted for a cut of the advertising proceeds. 
All this puts YouTube at the center of a rapidly changing, and potentially very profitable, universe. YouTube offerings will be integrated into Google searches, and the technology could help Google offer its advertisers ways to go beyond simple text ads. 
The purchase might yet prove to be a mistake. If significant numbers of movie and television companies refuse to enter into licensing deals, the company could be a nightmare of copyright issues. 
Regardless, the deal seems bound to accelerate innovation, turning viewers into producers, freeing them from the tyranny of the TV schedule and expanding their horizons into far corners of the world. 
Gotcha. What do you get when you marry the up-to-the-minute technology of YouTube with the ancient art of politics? Either an unfiltered view of candidates that will be a boon to voters, or anonymously posted video clips that will open the way for some of the nastiest campaign tricks in years. Or, perhaps, a little of both. 
This year, several campaigns have sent staffers to follow opponents on public outings, capture them on videotape and post embarrassing moments on YouTube. There's nothing new about tailing an opponent or seizing on a gaffe, but this campaign season is the first when technology has provided a way to upload "gotcha" moments onto the Internet and launch them worldwide for free. 
The most infamous posting of the summer is of Sen. George Allen, R-Va., who was caught calling the Democratic staffer tailing him, a young man of Indian descent, "macaca." That's considered an ethnic slur in some cultures. The clip spread like wildfire on YouTube, landed on national front pages and network TV and put a dent in Allen's once wide lead over Democratic rival Jim Webb. 
In Montana, where Democratic state Sen. Jon Tester is battling to win the U.S. seat held by Republican Sen. Conrad Burns, a camera- wielding Tester aide caught Burns briefly closing his eyes during a hearing in Great Falls last August. The Tester campaign added music, titled it "Conrad Burns' Naptime" and threw it up on YouTube. 
Allen's wound was self-inflicted, but the minute-long clip of Burns smacks of a cheap shot: It shows him struggling to keep his eyes open, not sleeping through the hearing. Who hasn't had that experience? 
Analysts and voters have argued for decades over what's fair criticism of a rival and what's twisting the truth. If YouTube allows voters to catch unvarnished glimpses of candidates, rather than just what they choose to show the media, it will add some refreshing reality to campaigns. Or it could degenerate into yet another form of dirty negative ads. 
This much is sure: YouTube is making the already tough business of campaigning for office even more of a tightrope walk -- carefully staged to avoid a televised pratfall. 

As Congress settles into its month-long August break, it's hard to shake the feeling that the House and Senate haven't earned their time off. 
Instead of tending to basics and working out differences on divisive but vital issues such as immigration, members have spent much of the past several months in political posturing and time- wasting debates over non-essential issues. 
One thing Congress must do each year is pass the annual spending bills that fund everything from the space program to border security. So far, the Senate has produced just one of the 11 appropriations bills. 
Instead, Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist, R-Tenn., has found it more important to fritter away scarce time on an obsessive quest to repeal the estate tax and on blatant pandering to social conservatives with proposed constitutional amendments on flag- burning and gay marriage. Even those who think those issues are crucial would have an easier time defending debate time for them if the Senate had done its mandatory work first. 
It's not as if Congress can't act quickly if it wants to. To stop election-year talk that Republicans planned to let the Voting Rights Act expire, the House and Senate moved at lightning speed to renew key provisions of it a year early. Other achievements include a pension reform bill, a mining safety law, changes to the Patriot Act, emergency funding for wars and hurricanes, and an expansion of embryonic stem cell research that President Bush shamefully vetoed. 
But that's just a fraction of what a productive Congress should achieve. 
When lawmakers return from their recess next month, they will have only about 15 working days before they're scheduled to go home again Oct. 6 to campaign for re-election. Voters who want to judge whether their members of Congress have done their jobs should monitor their progress on issues such as these: 
*Immigration. A bipartisan majority backs tightening border security and dealing humanely with the nearly 12 million immigrants here illegally. Yet House Republicans are blocking any compromise with the Senate. 
*Lobbying rules. It's inexcusable that in one of the worst years in memory for congressional corruption and money-related scandals, Congress still hasn't tightened rules governing the incestuous relationships between lobbyists and lawmakers. 
*Iraq. The mission of many of the 133,000 U.S. troops in Iraq is shifting from fighting insurgents to trying to avert all-out civil war. Sen. John Warner, R-Va., says that might even require a new congressional resolution to replace the one that authorized the 2003 invasion. Yet Congress left Washington trading hoary sound bites rather than engaging in the serious debate warranted by the new situation on the ground. 
*Trying detainees in the war on terror. The Supreme Court slapped down the Bush administration's plans to try detainees before special military commissions; it's up to Congress to construct a process consistent with the Constitution and U.S. values. 
*Minimum wage. GOP leaders finally offered to back a long overdue minimum wage increase, but only if Democrats agreed to link it to estate tax relief for a handful of the nation's richest families. Fortunately, this cynical coupling failed in the Senate at the end of last week. When Congress returns, it should give America's poorest workers a raise and forget about giving its wealthiest heirs a fat tax break. 
*Spending bills. Other Congresses have completed them all on time, before the Oct. 1 start of the new fiscal year. It takes discipline. Will this Congress measure up? Will it do anything to rein in the $300 billion federal deficit, or will it continue irresponsible spending increases and tax cuts? 
Republicans shoulder most of the blame for this do-little record, since they're in charge. But Democrats have too often shown they'd rather criticize than compromise, particularly when it comes to shoring up Social Security and Medicare for the long term. 
President Bush is taking only a 10-day vacation this August. With a "to do" list this long, it's hard to see why members of Congress need a month.
Now that Fidel, 79, has ceded power, why not use the moment to move toward lifting the trade and travel embargo? The impact would be big and immediate. It would remove the policy that has let Castro blame the problems of his decrepit system on the United States.

</file>

<file= AmE06_B04>

Vladimir Putin certainly has a flair for timing. The Russian President is assuming the chairmanship of the G-8 democratic nations in the same week that he's been attempting some Soviet-style energy extortion against Ukraine.
Moscow has been demanding a nearly fivefold price increase for the natural gas it sells Ukraine. As these "negotiations" proceeded, the Kremlin bought up future gas supplies from Turkmenistan, limiting Kiev's access to alternative sources. When Ukraine refused to bend, Russia cut off all supplies on January 1, apparently including the contracted delivery of Turkmen gas to Ukraine that runs via pipeline through Russian territory.
The Kremlin's real goal here isn't money so much as political influence over its democratic, free-thinking and formerly subservient Slavic neighbor. A year ago Ukraine's Viktor Yushchenko used his "Orange Revolution" to defeat the Kremlin's handpicked presidential candidate and turn toward the West. The energy squeeze is Mr. Putin's attempt at revenge, notably coming less than three months before Ukraine's parliamentary elections.
Russia's claim that it is only seeking "fair market prices" would be plausible if a market existed. Ukraine pays prices well below the international average, but gas, unlike oil, is not heavily traded and global comparisons are not very useful. Russia's Gazprom is a government monopoly that can set prices however it desires, with preferences going to customers that are the friendliest to Moscow (Belarus).
By cutting off supply, Moscow is also violating its contractual obligations. In the summer of 2004, Russia and Ukraine agreed on the current pricing framework until 2009. But that deal was intended to boost the presidential aspirations of Ukraine's Viktor Yanukovych, Moscow's favored candidate, who lost to Mr. Yushchenko.
Mr. Putin's new gas squeeze could also damage Gazprom customers in the European Union. He is warning Ukraine not to siphon off gas destined for Europe, but if Europe's supplies are in danger, Russia is to blame. Ukraine says it is entitled to 15% of gas that goes through its pipelines in lieu of transit fees from Gazprom. And so far at least, Mr. Putin isn't getting much support in Europe. Germany's new government has blamed Moscow, and yesterday Russia reacted to that criticism by saying it would pump more gas through the pipeline to accommodate Europeans suffering an especially cold winter.
While this may end the immediate crisis, it doesn't end the larger problem that is Mr. Putin's policy arc both at home and abroad. The Russian President has concentrated political and economic power in the Kremlin by renationalizing the country's vast energy resources, and David Satter chronicles other anti-democratic trends nearby (See related editorial, WSJ Jan. 3, 2006).
Last week, the free-market economist Andrei Illarionov resigned as the Kremlin's economic adviser in protest at Mr. Putin's attack on Russian democracy, and he compared Russia's demands on Ukraine to Nazi and Soviet ultimatums on the eve of World War II. A year ago, Mr. Putin called the demise of the Soviet empire the "greatest geopolitical catastrophe of the century." He has since been acting as someone who wants to restore some version of that empire.
All of which makes Russia's assumption of the G-8 presidency this month both ironic and insulting to its fellow members. Moscow's inclusion has never been justified on economic grounds but was intended to promote democratic reform in a country that retains a huge nuclear arsenal. Perhaps the engineers of that G-8 policy, including President Bush, are now beginning to see that they made a mistake.

It didn't attract a lot of media fanfare, but two weeks ago the National Center for Health Statistics announced some spectacular news. The number of Americans dying from cancer fell for the first time in decades. This achievement against one of mankind's most dreaded diseases is the medical equivalent of putting a man on the moon.
Just a few years ago health officials warned of an epidemic of U.S. cancer deaths. One and a half million Americans will be diagnosed with the disease this year. And with a toll of half a million deaths a year, cancer is still one of the leading killers in America -- partly because death rates from infectious diseases have fallen precipitously over the past century. But the National Cancer Institute rightly hails the new data as "powerful evidence" that "we are on the right track to eliminating the death and suffering due to cancer."
For women, two of the most deadly forms of the disease -- lung and breast cancer -- are being successfully treated. For men, death from 11 of the 15 most common forms of cancer are on the decline, including prostate, colon, kidney, lung and leukemia. Perhaps the best news is that the National Institutes of Health reports that "childhood cancer showed some of the largest improvement in survival rates over the past 20 years."
Especially stunning is that fatalities are falling even though Americans are living longer. Cancer is a degenerative disease, meaning that the likelihood of contracting one of its multiple forms rises exponentially with age. So when statisticians age-adjust the death rate data -- and ask the question: What is the likelihood of an American dying from cancer at any given age? -- they find that cancer deaths have been falling by 1% per year since 1991. If that trend continues, our children will face a 25% lower risk of dying from cancer (at any given age) than we do today.
In the early 1960s, the five-year survival rate from cancer was about one in three. Today it is two in three -- and continuing to climb. Incidentally, although we hear a lot about the "health gap" among the races, the biggest gains in treating cancer have been for black Americans. Their cancer survival rate has doubled in 40 years (see nearby chart).
Why is cancer death falling? One leading reason has been the positive health effects from a decline in smoking. Tobacco use has tumbled by about half since the 1964 Surgeon General's report on the health hazards of smoking. The other major factors are early detection and better treatment. Both are the result of medical innovation funded by government, private donations, and profit-making bio-medical and pharmaceutical companies. Colonoscopies, mammograms and other tests are more widely publicized and utilized. And new drug therapies, less punishing and invasive than surgery or chemotherapy, have been developed thanks to the incentives of a private medical marketplace.
This is in marked contrast to the anti-cancer record of government-run health systems elsewhere in the world. As Michael Tanner, health-care expert at the Cato Institute, notes: "Because cancer is a slow moving and expensive disease to treat, it is not cost-effective under socialized medicine to treat the disease too aggressively. This saves governments money but at a high human cost."
The statistics bear out Mr. Tanner's point. Only about one in five men with prostate cancer in the U.S. will die from it. But, according to a study by the Commonwealth Fund, about 57% of British men, and nearly half of French and German men, will do so. In Britain only 40% of cancer patients are even permitted to see an oncologist to treat the disease. Two-thirds of Canadian provinces report sending their colon cancer patients to the U.S. for treatment. Government-run medical systems can be as cruel to cancer patients as the cancer itself.
One myth about cancer is that our industrial society is pumping poisons into the air and water that put us at ever greater risk of cancer. But studies indicate that about 2% of cancer diagnoses are a result of environmental pollutants. Air and water quality have dramatically improved over the past 30 years, and air pollution carcinogens are down by 54% nationwide, according to Environmental Protection Agency data. Only 4% of cancers are a result of occupational hazards, despite lawsuits from such things as exposure to asbestos. Economic growth and the freedom that produces it are reducing, rather than increasing, cancer risks.
We haven't yet won the race for a cure, but we are on the road to winning. Amid all of the criticism of the American medical system, this is progress to be savored by cancer survivors and their loved ones -- and understood by policy makers who want the progress to continue.

Here America's strategic interests are very much engaged, even if the actors in the fight range, morally speaking, from the unpalatable to the unacceptable.
Among the unpalatables is the increasingly autocratic Meles Zenawi, Ethiopia's prime minister of 15 years, who has deployed as many as 20,000 troops in neighboring Somalia and may soon control its capital, Mogadishu. Mr. Zenawi claims to be acting on behalf of Somalia's internationally recognized but weak Transitional Federal Government (TFG), which was barely holding on in the regional city of Baidoa until Ethiopia's intervention.
The TFG is led by Abdullahi Yusuf Ahmed, another strongman-in-waiting whose resume includes stints as president (first elected, later self-declared) of the breakaway northern Somali province of Puntland. Also in the anti-Islamist mix is the so-called Alliance for the Restoration of Peace and Counter-Terrorism, a coalition of Somali warlords reportedly backed by the CIA with suitcases of cash on the theory they were more likely to keep the Islamists at bay than were the TFG.
On the opposite side are the Islamists, a.k.a. the Islamic Courts Union (ICU). Since wresting control over Mogadishu from the warlords, the ICU has managed to pacify parts of the country, which some might say is a net plus for Somalis. But its methods are reminiscent of the Taliban, which also brought a sort of peace to Afghanistan. The ICU threatens to behead anyone who fails to pray five times a day.
Among the ICU's leaders is one Hassan Dahir Aweys, previously of the Saudi-funded, al Qaeda-connected al-Itihaad al-Islamiya terrorist group. Mr. Aweys was named a terrorist by the U.S. as far back as 2001, and his outfit is thought to be connected to the 1998 bombings of the U.S. embassies in Kenya and Tanzania. The extent to which the Islamic Courts Union is assisting al Qaeda or its offshoots is a matter of dispute. But there's no doubt it is now recruiting jihadis from around the world to its cause.
Such are the opposing sides in this conflict, and it's clear that U.S. interests would be well-served by the ICU's collapse. Less clear is how to bring that about, how to do so without sparking a wider war, and how to bring some semblance of order to the country.
Eritrea, long at war with Ethiopia, has sent its own contingent of troops to aid the ICU, Saudi Arabia has pledged support, and al Qaeda bigwig Ayman al-Zawahiri has called Somalia "the southern garrison of Islam." While the ICU might easily be routed by Ethiopia in a conventional test of arms, it will be much more difficult to defeat as a guerrilla or terrorist force.
No outside powers are likely to risk a repeat of the disastrous U.N. mission to Somalia of the early 1990s. So probably the best the U.S. can do is give tacit support to Ethiopia's incursion while using its leverage with Mr. Zenawi to demand that he agree to the U.N. demarcated border with Eritrea. The U.S. provides Ethiopia with economic as well as substantial military assistance.
In return, the Eritreans might be persuaded to cease their support for the ICU. The U.S. could also condition material support for a future TFG government in Mogadishu on its recognition of the autonomy of Puntland and neighboring Somaliland, which adjoins U.S.-allied Djibouti and has been relatively free of ICU interference. As with the former Yugoslavia, addressing the problem that is Somalia might ultimately mean breaking up that large country into smaller bits.
There is a material limit to what the U.S. can do for East Africa, and expectations for what the region can and will do it for itself cannot be high. Still, the Ethiopian offensive against Islamic Courts is an act of regional hygiene that we can hope is able to contain radical Islam from spreading to a far larger swath of Africa.

</file>

<file= AmE06_B05>

GENTLE READER and Regular Correspondent asks the question: What's the toughest part of the job? Well, tough is a relative term. Striking a keyboard for a living ain't digging ditches. Or anything else that involves real work.
But our reader deserves a straight answer to a straight question. And the answer came to us the other day during the debate between Bill (Clinton) Halter and (Joltin') Jim Holt, this year's candidates for lieutenant governor. The toughest part of the job? Not giving in to cynicism.
It's no easy trick. Especially when you're sitting through an hour-long political debate on a gorgeous night when you could be out walking the dog or at least watching Matt Jones play for the Jaguars on TV. Or washing your hair. Or clipping your toenails. Cynicism had already taken a big lead in this Monday night game.
But a funny thing happened on the way to Curmudgeon Land: Skip Rutherford, dean of the Clinton School and host of the evening's festivities, introduced us to some of the students on hand. And there were plenty. The place looked like a Student Union, with the grizzled press playing the part of the underappreciated-and-wanting-folks-to-know-it faculty. Dean Skip had eager minds/young voters from all over the state taking notes and paying careful attention. The only ones acting up were members of the media.
After the debate, we struck up a conversation with a young man from Lyon College in Batesville. He said he really enjoyed hearing the two candidates-and he seemed totally sincere. Honest. He was the very portrait of the public servant as a young man.
He described himself as conservative "for the most part," but not committed to either the Republican (Mr. Holt) or the Democrat (Mr. Halter) in the race for the state's No. 2 job. The young man said he especially appreciated how civil the debate had seemed. He liked that. He said he's tired of all the political screaming and heated rhetoric. And he's just a junior in college! Boy, wait till he has a few decades of campaign-watching under his expanding belt. He'll know what tired-of-dumb-rhetoric really is.
But we were encouraged.
Think about it: Here's a member of Generation Y. Or is it Z? Anyway, a kid who grew up in the era of shout radio and blogs and rapid/ rabid response teams and what's he excited about? A little civility.
Does the heart good.
In the end, the student from Lyon said he learned something, and he had plenty to think about-on issues ranging from taxes to illegal immigration. And he couldn't wait to hear more. And he wanted to attend a governor's debate, too. And . . . . Talking to the young man, listening to him, we started to feel more than a little guilty and a tad melancholy. Guilty for not sharing his enthusiasm and melancholy for not sharing his youth. Oh, how we'd love to waste it again!
Yep, something had rubbed off. And it was a good something. As we look back on that first debate of the fall campaign season, we don't much think about Jim Holt's reason-free answers or Bill Halter's risk-free ones. We think about that student from Lyon. And we're not so worried about the future.
ANOTHER DAY, another study, another confirmation of the obvious. Who knew economics, academics and all kinds of other -ics could be so predictable? But when it comes to the effect of immigration in this nation of immigrants, the answer almost always seems to be the same: Immigration, good.
Or to quote the headline in a story in last Friday's paper: Study: U.S. workers not hurt by alien influx.
The story reported on a study by the nonpartisan Pew Hispanic Center, which found that the 32 million immigrants-legal, illegal and some gray area in-between-who have flocked to America since 1990 have not-repeat NOT-hurt employment prospects for folks who were already here. Not even the folks without much education. To quote the study: There is "no apparent relationship between the growth of foreign workers with less education and the employment outcome of native workers with the same low level of education." Oh, sure, there's the occasional crank with a political agenda who says it ain't so. Like this guy Steven Camarota at the Center for Immigration Studies whose name popped up in the same story. He openly advocates for stricter immigration laws, so he's got his own agenda. But, mostly, this latest study adds to a growing consensus among economists and other pointy-headed types. Which is that, more than just not hurting U.S. workers, immigrants help the U.S. economy.
We keep an editorial from the Wall Street Journal of June 20th taped to the wall near our computer, and refer to it when yet another round of irate e-mails comes our way-usually in response to an editorial of our own about Hispanics in Arkansas. The irate seem frustrated that we just don't understand that them Messicans are taking jobs from real Amurhicans. And ain't nothin' good gonna come from this Hispanic Tide.
So to pre-empt another round from Irate & Co., and save ourselves some labor at the keyboard, we reprint this from the Journal: Immigration Consensus Finally a consensus has been reached on immigration. No, not among politicians, who can't agree on a rational immigration reform. The agreement is among professional economists.
In an open letter to President Bush and Congress last week, more than 500 prominent economists, including five Nobel laureates, proclaim that "immigration has been a net gain for American citizens." The letter adds that "while a small percentage of native-born Americans may be harmed by immigration, vastly more Americans benefit from the contributions that immigrants make to the economy, including lower consumer prices. As with trade in goods and services, gains from immigration outweigh the losses." Alan Greenspan often made this same point about the benefits of immigration while he was Federal Reserve Chairman.
What is striking about this immigration letter is that it is signed by economists from different fields of research, political affiliations and ideologies. It is possible that no other issue in the economic field, with the exception of the benefits of free trade, inspires such unanimity of professional opinion as immigration does.
Well said, fellow inky wretches. Even for a bunch of yankees in New Yawk City. If this across-the-board agreement among economists and researchers continues on the subject of immigration, maybe even politicians will agree on a rational immigration reform.
Nah. Politicians agree on something rational? Why, that'd be un-Amurhican. It's so much easier to be Irate.
If Tulsa's talk radio KFAQ represents the basic views of Oklahoma's conservative citizens, there is growing concern there with the proposed Super Corridor highway that within 50 years would facilitate competitive international trade beginning at the Mexican border in Laredo, Texas, and northward to Canada, splitting both Oklahoma and our nation in half.
I was returning to Fayetteville from Tulsa while listening to radio hosts and callers express their feelings about this grand "alien autobahn" plan to connect Mexico with Canada smack-dab through America's heartland. Maybe I've been awake but simply lacking awareness of this mega-project spearheaded by North America's SuperCorridor Coalition Inc., or NASCO. Somehow I just hadn't heard until now about the International Mid-Continent Trade and Transportation Corridor. How about you?
It seems the world's first eight-lane Super Corridor, complete with rail and utility lines, will divide the eastern and western U.S. much like an endlessly flowing river of multiethnic humanity, exhaust and concrete.
The radio hosts said this transportation corridor, which some are calling the "NAFTA superhighway," will range in width from four football fields to 12 miles in places, using the established pathways of existing highways. It will begin in the deep water ports of Southern Mexico, which accept freight from many nations, northward to beyond Winnipeg, Canada, incorporating existing Interstates 35, 24 and 94. Special "smart ports" for freight will be constructed at major cities such as San Antonio, Dallas and Kansas City.
These radio voices, naturally, were most concerned with what will happen when the Texas portion of this expansive, multimodal corridor (called TTC-35) now being planned by the Texas Department of Transportation along the existing I-35, meets Oklahoma's southern border. I-35 now splits Oklahoma from north to South through Oklahoma City.
The radio discussion varied on topics such as exposing our internal organs to the world in a time of terrorism and who will have jurisdiction over this supposedly secure international corridor. The answer is that a trilateral commission composed of members from Mexico, the U.S. and Canada will jointly rule all that transpires within this international strip. That alone was enough to give these radio voices a semi trailer-load of concerns.
Other worries are that many Americans will inevitably lose their homes and farms as this globalized vision of uniting three sovereign nations along existing (and enormously aggrandized) interstates, as well as "significant east-west connectors"-here read I-40-unfolds. If the project proceeds as planned, that is. One researcher has written that in Texas alone, the Super Corridor will remove nearly 600,000 acres of farm and ranch land from the tax rolls while displacing upward of a million people from their homes.
But the most vociferous angst on the program was devoted to our own national sovereignty in this time of terrorism and how it appears to be eroding before our very eyes, especially at the porous border with Mexico. Many Oklahomans seem highly skeptical of the motives behind the proposed Super Corridor. They believe the American people haven't been informed about this proposal and therefore have not had anything resembling an adequate voice in understanding or approving the concept.
Instead, they say, the efforts toward seeing this become a reality to "improve the quality of life and trade" in North America have been between the Dallasbased, non-profit NASCO and government bureaucrats at the federal, regional and state levels.
These folks said they want to see the plan nipped by Oklahoma lawmakers and officials until all of its citizens (and every other potentially affected American) are made aware of the agendas, goals and methods behind opening this supposedly secure international thoroughfare. They were pleading with other Oklahoma citizens to demand answers from state and federal lawmakers about this Godzilla of a public works project. Who can fault them? Look at Boston's "Big Dig." Providing the people with reliable information about a project like this, whether you consider yourself conservative or liberal, seems a reasonable enough request to me. But in light of the skeptical climate in America, where every group and government seems to have its hidden agenda and lobbyists to further it, these radio folks were rightly concerned about knowing where the full truth might lie, especially when it comes to other nations with their own patriotic and financial allegiances.
We all realize that in today's society, the love of money dictates and controls everything from pulpits to politicians, don't we, valued readers?
The talk show hosts said it can be difficult to sift through the PR flap being offered by those, such as NASCO, who wholeheartedly support the idea. However, facts can be discovered, even on the government's own Web sites, that the hosts said are often contradictory. One example lies in comparing the announced TTC-35 highway plans under way to streamline traffic across Texas with what others who have a direct stake in the project are telling the public about plans for the entire corridor. An overview of these contradictions and concerns can be read at humaneventsonline.com.
Information about this corridor can be most difficult to obtain. One visitor on the program said she tried FOIing materials from the government and was told the information totaled over 4,000 pages.
I have no problem understanding why our neighbors in Oklahoma, already aroused by the illegal immigration issue, are a bit edgy nowadays over having the world's first international highway through their living room.

</file>

<file= AmE06_B06>

Leave it to the good people of Philadelphia, whose football fans once famously booed and threw snowballs at Santa Claus, to come up with the perfect takedown of the most inflated (in more ways than one) superstar in contemporary sport. With the visiting Barry Bonds at the plate and needing just two home runs to tie Babe Ruth's iconic 714 lifetime homers, the banner was raised: "Ruth did it on hot dogs & beer." 
The target of this concise discourse on the roots of greatness has been booed lustily in every major league city he's played in outside his home town of San Francisco. The fans' displeasure lies in Bonds's alleged use of steroids. The use of "alleged" here, though mandatory, is forced and legalistic. After all, Bonds has admitted that he used "the clear" and "the cream," substances he claims he thought were flaxseed oil and some kind of emollient, only later to discover that they were actually steroids. 
The idea that an athlete of Bonds's stature, for whom the body is both temple and bank vault, would be mistakenly ingesting substances is implausible, made all the more so by the evidence dredged up by two San Francisco sportswriters detailing Bonds's (alleged) gargantuan consumption of every performance-enhancing drug from steroids to human growth hormone. 
But why should we care? What is really wrong with performance enhancement? We say we are against it because it diminishes striving, devalues achievement, produces a shortcut to greatness, etc. But in many endeavors we don't really care about any of that. Medical residents at hospitals have been known to take Ritalin to keep themselves alert on overnight shifts. If it enhances their thinking in the emergency room, what's the objection? 
Many public speakers, performers and even some surgeons take beta-blockers to literally still their hearts and steady their hands. I've never seen a banner at the opera complaining: "Pavarotti does it on pasta." And what about the military, which pioneered some of these performance-enhancing studies to see how they could help soldiers survive the most extreme stresses? Isn't that an unqualified good? 
Performance enhancement turns out to be disturbing only in the narrow context of competition, most commonly in sports. And the objection is not cheating nature but cheating competitors. It's basically a fairness issue. 
When everyone has access to technological improvements (graphite tennis rackets, titanium drivers, more tightly wound baseballs) the sport may be transformed, but the playing field remains level. When technology is enhancing the equipment, fans become quickly reconciled to the transformation. (And it can be radical: The transition from bamboo to fiberglass totally changed the pole vault.) But when technology enhances the physiology of the athlete, we tend to recoil. 
Interestingly, however, not always. What about Lasik surgery? Tiger Woods had it and said it made his game stronger than ever. I have yet to see a banner at the Masters saying: "Nicklaus did it by squinting." 
Vision enhancement is even more helpful to baseball players trying to follow the flight of a ball approaching at 90 mph. Hitting requires hand-eye coordination. Bonds turns his arms into tree trunks, and boos rain down. Change the physiology of the other part of the equation -- the eye -- and no one cares. 
Why? Because Lasik is legal, common and available to all. Steroids are not. True, baseball had no steroid ban until 2005 (an informal policy began in 2002), and management looked the other way. But since 1990 use without a prescription has been illegal in the United States. Most players didn't use steroids. Many considered it cheating. 
So is Bonds a villain? No more than the other highly pumped sluggers such as Mark McGwire and Sammy Sosa who only yesterday were the toast of the nation. Bonds's sin appears to be that he did it better and longer than others and did not break down physically as early from the side effects. 
But that's only part of it. No one cared terribly, no nasty banners were hung, when he surpassed contemporaries such as McGwire. The deep distaste that arises now is that he is challenging two sacred figures of the past: the great Ruth and the elegant, pioneering Hank Aaron. When the competitor is historical, playing in a totally different technological era, the playing field is decidedly unlevel. 
Bonds (allegedly) used artificial enhancers. They were internal and physiological. And they were taken clandestinely and illegally. 
Three strikes. 
Put an asterisk beside his records? No. A home run is a home run and not one was challenged at the time. In any case, asterisks are removable. Bonds's records carry a taint that will long endure. 

The music business can be so arbitrarily cruel that any artist whose new album debuts at the top of the charts has earned the right to gloat, at least a little. So that means the Dixie Chicks, to whom the country music industry has been deliberately cruel, deserve to gloat a lot. Since Natalie Maines, Emily Robison and Martie Maguire are being excessively polite about their sweet vindication, I'll do a little gloating for them. 
"Taking the Long Way," the Chicks' new album, opened at No. 1 on the Billboard charts last week, with 525,829 copies sold. That would be remarkable under any circumstances -- the Chicks, by some measures, have become the most successful female group in history -- but it's downright astounding given that many country stations are refusing to play the album's first single, "Not Ready to Make Nice." 
In fact, a lot of country stations have refused to play any of the Dixie Chicks' songs since March 10, 2003. By then it was clear that nothing would deter George W. Bush from launching his elective war in Iraq, and the Chicks were giving a concert in London, where popular opinion generally saw the impending invasion as pure madness. Maines committed the crime of speaking her mind. "Just so you know," the golden-haired, golden-voiced Texan told the audience, "we're ashamed that the president of the United States is from Texas." 
Back home, the Chicks were denounced as traitors on right-wing talk radio. Country music deejays, apparently seeing jingoism as a good career move, not only denounced the Chicks but refused to play their music. Some said they were just responding to listeners who threatened to boycott stations that dared to broadcast the Dixie Chicks' sweet harmonies. 
The following month, after the war had begun -- but long before we knew how the administration had contrived its rationale for the invasion or how it had failed to plan for the bloody, grinding occupation that continues to this day -- Tom Brokaw raised the Dixie Chicks controversy in an interview with the president, asking if he would invite them to the White House. President Bush never gave a yes or a no, but he did have something to say: 
"I mean, the Dixie Chicks are free to speak their mind. They can say what they want to say. And just because -- they shouldn't have their feelings hurt just because some people don't want to buy their records when they speak out. You know, freedom is a two-way street." 
That sounds to me like a pretty clear presidential endorsement of a boycott of the Chicks. In fairness to Bush, though, I'm sure he wouldn't approve of all that followed -- frequent harassment and even death threats. 
Standard procedure would have been for the Chicks to grovel and beg forgiveness. Instead, they responded by posing for the cover of Entertainment Weekly in the nude, their bodies covered with graffiti -- "Saddam's Angels," "Proud Americans," "Boycott," "Free Speech," "Shut Up," "Peace." At one point, Maines issued a modified, limited, half-hearted apology, which she quickly retracted. Her position was that all she had done was speak her mind. 
Robison and Maguire never faltered in backing her up, although they did tell "60 Minutes" that during one concert, after a particularly chilling threat that Maines would be shot dead on stage, they might have stood a little farther away from their lead singer than usual. 
"I didn't know we lived in a time when just speaking your mind would bring out this much wrath," Robison said Wednesday night in an interview on "Larry King Live." For the past few weeks, the Chicks have been pretty much inescapable with around-the-clock television appearances. They even graced the cover of Time magazine (fully clothed). 
It's not yet clear whether the new album is being bought by country music fans who are ignoring the industry's party line because they like the music or by non-fans who are using their credit cards in support of free speech. It is clear, though, that both Bush and his war have become unpopular, even in communities where, as the joke goes, they like both kinds of music: country and western. 
Are the Chicks just milking their notoriety to sell CDs and downloads? I doubt it, since they already had two No. 1 albums to their credit when all this started. I think that what you see is what you get -- three women who are musicians, not activists, but who decided they aren't going to be pushed around by a bunch of bullies. 
The controversy "turned my whole world around," Maines sings on the new single, "and I kind of like it." 

The decline of good auto-industry jobs is a particularly dramatic example of a larger problem. In the June 10 issue of National Journal, staff correspondent Bruce Stokes argues that "the global economy's job machine may be breaking down, again." 
Citing data from the Economic Policy Institute, Stokes notes that employment growth in the current recovery is much slower than in earlier upturns -- "the slowest in any recovery since the Kennedy administration," he writes. 
Stokes is not making a partisan point about the Bush administration alone, since he notes a long-term trend toward slower job growth. But the job numbers help explain why the polls are recording so much economic discontent in the middle of an expansion. 
For the past 15 years, progressive free-market politicians have offered an appealing mantra about how to save the middle class: What's needed, they've said, is heavy investment in education and job training to allow people to make the transition from the "old" economy -- those auto jobs -- to the new. "What you earn depends upon what you can learn," President Bill Clinton said over and over. 
There's certainly some truth to that still, but in the global economy, competition is fierce even for high-end jobs requiring great skill and education. To think otherwise is to deny the obvious: that the people of India and China, to pick just the two obvious examples, are gifted, energetic, ambitious -- and numerous. 
That's why Alan Blinder, a Princeton economist and former vice chairman of the Federal Reserve, was right to warn us about how many jobs are in danger of being moved abroad. In an article in Foreign Affairs this year, he wrote that "we have so far barely seen the tip of the offshoring iceberg, the eventual dimensions of which may be staggering." 
Blinder is no protectionist, but he insisted that "the governments and societies of the developed world must face up to the massive, complex, and multifaceted challenges that offshoring will bring." The UAW's Gettelfinger would be the first to say: Amen. 
Gettelfinger, Stokes and Blinder all point to the greatest challenge facing the American center-left. It's large enough that it should swamp all the silly arguments about whether Democrats need some sort of program for the 2006 elections. That is a tactical question -- of great importance to political strategists, but far less critical than whether progressives can, over the long run, keep their core promise to expand opportunities for the middle class and the poor. 
Historically, voters turn away from conservative free-market politicians after they conclude that capitalism needs help in living up to its commitment to create widely shared abundance.

</file>

<file= AmE06_B07>

Even if there were a case for staying the current course in Iraq, America's badly overstretched Army cannot sustain present force levels much longer without long-term damage. And that could undermine the credibility of American foreign policy for years to come. 
The Army has been kept on short rations of troops and equipment for years by a Pentagon more intent on stockpiling futuristic weapons than fighting today's wars. Now it is pushing up against the limits of hard arithmetic. Senior generals are warning that the Bush administration may have to break its word and again use National Guard units to plug the gap, but no one in Washington is paying serious attention. That was clear last week when Congress recklessly decided to funnel extra money to the Air Force's irrelevant F-22 stealth fighter. 
As early as the fall of 2003, the Congressional Budget Office warned that maintaining substantial force levels in Iraq for more than another six months would be difficult without resorting to damaging short-term expedients. The Pentagon then had about 150,000 troops in Iraq. Three years later, those numbers have not fallen appreciably. For much of that time, the Pentagon has plugged the gap by extending tours of duty, recycling soldiers back more quickly into combat, diverting National Guard units from homeland security and misusing the Marine Corps as a long-term occupation force. 
These emergency measures have taken a heavy toll on combat readiness and training, on the quality of new recruits, and on the career decisions of some of the Army's most promising young officers. They cannot be continued indefinitely. 
Now, with the security situation worsening in both Iraq and Afghanistan, the Pentagon concedes that no large withdrawals from either country are likely for the foreseeable future. As a result, even more drastic and expensive steps could soon be needed. The most straightforward would be to greatly increase the overall number of Army combat brigades. That would require recruiting, training and equipping the tens of thousands of additional soldiers needed to fill them. 
Yet the Pentagon and Congress remain in an advanced state of denial. While the overall Defense Department budget keeps rising, pushed along by unneeded gadgetry, next year's spending plan fails to adequately address the Army's pressing personnel needs. Things have gotten so badly out of line that in August the Army chief of staff held up a required 2008 budget document, protesting that the Army simply could not keep doing its job without a sizable increase in spending. 
A bigger army does not fit into Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld's version of a technologically transformed military. And Congress prefers lavishing billions on Lockheed Martin to build stealth fighters, which are great for fighting Russian MIG's and Chinese F-8's but not for securing Baghdad. Army grunts are not as glamorous as fighter pilots and are a lot less profitable to equip. Yet we live in an age in which fighting on the ground to rescue failed states and isolate terrorists has become the Pentagon's most urgent and vital military mission. 
America's credibility in that fight depends on the quality, quantity and readiness of our ground forces. If we go on demanding more and more from them while denying the resources they so desperately need, we could end up paying a terrible price. 

The Roberts court officially began last year, but the term that starts this week should give the first clear picture of what kind of court it will be. The docket includes major cases involving abortion, affirmative action and the environment. 
The justices in the Supreme Court's now solidly conservative majority will be given a chance to prove what sort of conservatives they intend to be: those who issue rulings to match their personal ideology, or those who want to keep the court on a steady path by respecting precedent. 
The cases that have so far attracted the most attention are a pair of challenges to a federal law that criminalizes so-called partial birth abortions. The law, passed by Congress in 2003, does not have an exception for procedures necessary to protect the health of a pregnant woman. The court struck down a nearly identical ban in 2000 by the State of Nebraska. That ruling was 5 to 4, and Justice Sandra Day O'Connor -- the court's perennial swing vote before she retired -- sided with the majority. 
The ''partial birth'' cases should reveal a lot about the views of Chief Justice John Roberts and Justice Samuel Alito. If they are as hostile to abortion rights as many court watchers believe, there may now be five votes in favor of the ban, which could outlaw many second-trimester abortions and endanger the lives of women. 
But if they are true to the statements they made at their confirmation hearings about respecting precedent, they should not want to reverse a decision the court made on this subject as recently as 2000. 
The court has also agreed to hear a pair of challenges to admissions policies at K-12 public schools in Seattle and Louisville, Ky., that take race into account to promote diversity. These cases revisit many issues the court considered in 2003, when it upheld the University of Michigan's use of race in law school admissions. That was another 5-to-4 decision with Justice O'Connor casting the deciding vote. That ruling was right to say that schools should be able to take race into account, and the court should not change its stance now -- opening the door to even more challenges to affirmative action. 
Among the other important cases the court will hear is one about global warming. A group of states and environmental organizations have sued the Environmental Protection Agency for failing to do its duty under the Clean Air Act to regulate new cars' emission of carbon dioxide and other pollutants. The court can and should prod the Bush administration to do more to protect the earth from the buildup of greenhouse gases, by requiring it to enforce the law that Congress passed. 
If Chief Justice Roberts and Justice Alito turn out to be conservatives with a deep respect for precedent, the court is likely to remain fairly centrist. But the biggest factor is likely to be Justice Anthony Kennedy, who began last term to fill Justice O'Connor's role as a voice of moderation. We hope he continues to do so. 

Sudan's leaders sent out a letter last week warning governments against volunteering their troops for a United Nations peacekeeping force for Darfur. Khartoum was obviously feeling cocky. But why shouldn't it? The Security Council -- or more to the point, the big powers that run the Security Council -- made clear that it won't send in troops to stop the genocide unless Sudan first agrees. 
Then there's Iran, which is still defiantly enriching uranium. And the North Koreans, who blew off the rest of the world when they blew off what they said was a nuclear weapon this week. 
Welcome to the new age of impunity. 
It wasn't supposed to be this way. The Iraq war and President Bush's with-us-or-against-us war on terrorism was supposed to frighten the bad guys so much that they wouldn't dare cross the United States. But the opposite has happened. President Bush has squandered so much of America's moral authority -- not to mention our military resources -- that efforts to shame or bully the right behavior from adversaries (and allies) sound hollow. 
There is plenty of blame to go around when it comes to empowering rogue states. The Chinese have been shielding Sudan and North Korea. The Russians have been shielding Iran. Were it not for Iraq and Mr. Bush's other troubles, there would be ways to shame or bypass those roadblocks. When the Russians blocked U.N. action in Kosovo, President Clinton got NATO to stop the killing. 
Mr. Bush appears to care deeply about Darfur. But the United States is so overstretched in Iraq that no one in this White House is even talking about sending NATO to stop ethnic cleansing that has already left more than 200,000 dead and displaced more than two million. 
Closing our eyes for another two years isn't an answer. Washington needs to assert its leadership, no matter how tattered, on all these fronts. 
We suspect that cargo inspections and a cutoff of military and luxury trade will not be enough to get North Korea to back down. But having started there, Mr. Bush now needs to tell China and Russia that all future relations will be judged on how they hold the North to account. 
Beijing and Moscow would find it harder to say no if Mr. Bush made a clear pledge -- no caveats and no fingers crossed behind his back -- that he would not try to overthrow North Korea's government if it abandoned its nuclear weapons. Mr. Bush needs to make the same unambiguous offer to Iran. As for Darfur, Khartoum might feel less cocky if Mr. Bush announced that he was taking the lead on soliciting troops for a peacekeeping force while asking NATO to start drawing up plans for a possible forced entry should the United Nations fail to act. 
In his news conference yesterday, Mr. Bush said that the abuses at Abu Ghraib ''hurt us internationally. It kind of eased us off the moral high ground.'' He quickly added that the world had seen the perpetrators held to account. 
We fear it will take a lot more than the trials of a few low-level prison guards to repair the damage, whether from Abu Ghraib, Guantanamo, the secret prisons or the whole mismanaged Iraq war. There can be no impunity at home either. 

The new governor must propose his first state budget almost immediately after taking office. Already Mr. Spitzer has sent some of the right signals in his pre-election statements that he will not be pressured by the usual special interests in Albany: the lobbyists for corporations or labor who have been scandalously invited into secret budget negotiations in recent years. 
If voters elect Mr. Spitzer with the kind of mandate the polls are predicting, he will have the political influence to press for priorities he has been stressing throughout the campaign -- improving access to health care, reforming Medicaid and expanding education financing. He must offer hope for more job creation upstate and spur development at ground zero and other sites in the city. He should make sure that the court system is finally revamped and consolidated, if necessary through a constitutional amendment. 
But of all the promises on Mr. Spitzer's long and impressive list, the reforms of the political system and the state bureaucracy are among the most critical. He has said he wants to ban contributions to state candidates and gifts to state employees from those who do business with the state. And in a speech earlier this year, he sent a chill through the legislative crowd by promising to end what he called ''lifetime appointments to the State Legislature'' that are created through gerrymandered Assembly and Senate districts. Drastically revamping the system for financing state campaigns and creating an independent redistricting commission are two changes that should stay at the top of Mr. Spitzer's priority list. If he can really force Albany's entrenched legislators to make these changes -- even by the end of Year 4 -- that could stand as a major monument to his administration. 
Despite our respect for Mr. Faso's worthy race, this is an easy choice. We not only endorse Mr. Spitzer, we also hope his victory is big enough to use as a cudgel in the State Capitol. As attorney general, he has been fearless and dogged in his pursuit of justice. We are eager to see what happens when he applies those attributes to Albany's immobile Legislature, which has a long, sad history in wearing would-be reformers down, waiting them out. Imposing change will take the kind of herculean effort New Yorkers have come to expect from Eliot Spitzer.

</file>

<file= AmE06_B08>

One of the signature buzzwords of John Paul II's papacy was "dialogue." So committed was he to seeking common ground with leaders of different faiths that he all but institutionalized the process in 1986 by hosting the first of a series of interreligious gatherings in the medieval Italian town of Assisi. It was well known in Vatican circles that Cardinal Joseph Ratzinger, among the Pope's most loyal lieutenants, was lukewarm to the Assisi enthusiasm. The German Cardinal was, after all, among the world's most rigorous (and traditionalist) Catholic theologians, skeptical of any attempt to water down differences among faiths. Still, when that same theologian became Pope Benedict XVI, he understood that the hard-won lines of communication with the world's other faiths must stay open.
But rather than dialogue, the Pope now faces the need to perform major interfaith damage control. The outcry in the Muslim world that followed his provocative lecture last week on faith and reason--and the origins of holy war--is evidence that the 79-year-old Benedict needs to work on the diplomatic requirements of his new job. In the speech at Regensburg University, he opened a much broader theological exploration by quoting these words of a 14th century Byzantine Emperor: "Show me just what Muhammad brought that was new, and there you will find things only evil and inhuman, such as his command to spread by the sword the faith he preached."
Perhaps Islamic sensibilities could have been spared if the speech had included a clear indication that the Pope did not agree with the inflammatory words from 600 years ago. Still, the fallout doesn't mean that the speech was a mistake or that a Pope can never mention Muhammad. In fact, the 35-minute discourse could turn out to be the most important step forward for interfaith dialogue since that first meeting in Assisi. It could also set off a new round of anti-Western violence by angry Muslims. Or both. Such is the world that this shy, academic-minded pastor was presented with 17 months ago when he became Pope. The buzzwords today are 9/11, clash of civilizations, jihad--and old formulas must now be replaced by hard, new thinking, even at the risk of offending sensibilities.
This theologian in chief for a billion Catholics should not shy away from serious theology. Benedict's razor-sharp intellect is the best skill he has to offer his church--and potentially the world as well. When he turned that brainpower toward the realm of interreligious relations in last week's speech, Benedict shifted the terms of a debate that has been dominated by either feel-good truisms, victimization complexes or hateful confrontation. He sought instead to delineate what he sees as a fundamental difference between Christianity's view that God is intrinsically linked to reason (the Greek concept of Logos) and Islam's view that "God is absolutely transcendent."
Benedict said Islam teaches that God's "will is not bound up with any of our categories, even that of rationality." The risk he sees implicit in this concept of the divine is that the irrationality of violence might thereby appear to be justified to someone who believes it is God's will. The essential question, he said, was this: "Is the conviction that acting unreasonably contradicts God's nature ... always and intrinsically true?"

His questions were not reserved only for the Islamic world. As he has done before, Benedict spoke about the need for the West, especially Europe, to reverse its tendency toward godless secularism. He believes that the gift of reason that he cherishes in Christianity has been warped by the West into an absolutist doctrine. And that too, he believes, prevents the opening of a productive channel for dialogue with a more faithful Islamic society. "Reason and faith," he insisted, must "come together in a new way."
Toward the end of his lecture, Benedict said, "It is to this great Logos, to this breadth of reason, that we invite our partners in the dialogue of cultures." Indeed, just last month, on the 20th anniversary of that first Assisi encounter, the Pope sent to the Bishop of Assisi a written message that heralded John Paul's promotion of peaceful dialogue among religions. If Benedict can acquire enough of his predecessor's political touch, the theologian's hard thinking may help the West begin the difficult conversation with its Islamic brothers--one that includes a clear definition of differences as well as a search for common ground--that is so badly needed. 
The reporter caught me while I was sitting in the sanctuary of First Presbyterian Church awaiting the joyous and celebratory graduation services of my daughter's grade school. "What do you feel about the verdicts?" Since I had met with Ken Lay in August 2001 to warn him of Enron's shady accounting and Lay for the most part ignored my warnings, the reporter wanted to know, "Do you feel vindicated?" My mood did not remain joyous or celebratory. I stammered something about being satisfied that justice prevailed. What I couldn't convey in words is a sense of sadness, sadness for what could have been.
In early 2001 Lay and Jeff Skilling, Enron's longtime leaders, unveiled a new mission statement. No longer would Enron strive to be "The World's Leading Energy Company"; we were going to be "The World's Leading Company." Why limit ourselves to energy? Enron was fast-paced, inventive, exciting; we epitomized the New Economy, able to innovate virtually overnight. Unfortunately, in life, our strengths can become our weaknesses. Just as the dark side of charisma is narcissism, the dark side of innovation is fraud. Enron fell victim to both. Our finance, accounting and legal departments pushed the use of off-balance-sheet vehicles over the line that separates creative transactions from fraudulent ones. Our corporate culture became narcissistic; we were focused on our image, not our customers or our products. The most alarming revelation is how easy it was to co-opt the outside world into joining us as we sang our praises: auditors, lawyers, bankers, the media.
Are we now less likely to fall victim to the next charismatic, innovative leader? I still wonder whether we truly recognize and value the appropriate traits in our leaders. We want honest leaders who are decisive, creative, optimistic and even courageous, but we so easily settle for talk that marks those traits instead of action. Worse, we often don't even look for one of the most critical traits of a leader: humility. A humble leader listens to others. He or she values input from employees and is ready to hear the truth, even if it is bad news. Humility is marked by an ability to admit mistakes.
There is no humility in either Skilling or Lay. As I watched Lay after the verdict, I was deeply dismayed by his inability to discern truth. He did not discern the truth of my warnings in August 2001. He failed to discern the truth of his own culpability; he refuses to take responsibility. He hides behind words of Scripture, but even these he misuses.
By the fall of 2001 Lay was telling us that Enron's future had never looked better, even as he was cashing in his Enron shares. By taking care of himself, Lay violated one of Jesus' leadership lessons, found in Mark 9:35: "If anyone desires to be first, he must be last of all, and servant of all." We need to applaud the servant-leader, the one who clearly demonstrates that the interests of the organization and its customers, employees and investors (in that order) come first, not his own. Humility is a critically important trait in leaders. We have to ask ourselves, Is our society cultivating humility? Do we exhibit that trait individually and collectively as a nation? Will we stop and learn from the Enron lesson in leadership failures, or will we just shrug our shoulders and thank God we're not Ken Lay?
I felt it five years ago when I became one of the 1.7 million American men who buy a diamond ring each year. But after my engagement unraveled, I began to think again about that ring and about the diamond trade that produced it. I realized there were questions I should have been asking about that diamond beyond the carat size and the price. Primarily, should you even buy a diamond?
The answer depends on whom you ask. De Beers and the rest of the diamond trade would say yes. Watchdog groups like Global Witness would say no. Eight years ago, Global Witness produced damning evidence of jewel-related slaughter in several African nations. It caused an international scandal and gave rise to a policing mechanism called the Kimberley Process, which requires diamond-exporting nations to seal their stones in a tamperproof container, with a document stating they were not mined in a war zone. It also requires better data collection from customs agencies.
Has this worked? To research my book, The Heartless Stone, I traveled in 2004 and '05 to Africa, where diamonds are mined in conditions that range from the orderly to the horrific, and found virtually no oversight of the violence-prone alluvial-mining sites. Many stones have made their way out of the jungle and into suburban malls via somebody's lower intestinal tract. Even when the diamonds are not smuggled or traded for guns, the wages for the miners can be outrageously unfair. I met a team of diggers in the Central African Republic who were routinely paid $200 for large-carat diamonds that would easily retail for $40,000 in the U.S.
There is persuasive evidence that the supply chain is easily infiltrated. A September report from the U.S. Government Accountability Office (GAO) said flatly, "U.S. control systems cannot help deter illicit rough diamonds from entering the legitimate trade." Another disturbing finding: the U.S. reported exporting more diamonds than it received in 2003-- a remarkable trade imbalance for a nation without a single working mine. The GAO said, with bureaucratic dryness, that such figures were "not plausible."
The Kimberley Process has two loopholes that can't be easily plugged. The first, as the GAO's findings indicate, is that it would be difficult to design a better tool for money laundering, arms dealing and cross-border smuggling than a diamond--all that liquidity in such a tiny space. Diamonds can be bought with dirty money, moved across African borders with relative ease, given false paperwork and then sent onward to the trading centers of Europe.
The second is that Kimberley concerns itself only with nations that are in a state of war as defined by the U.N. This essentially overlooks all kinds of miserable deeds in places like Angola, which is still recovering from a grinding 30-year war and where murder and robbery are facets of daily life in the diamond fields. I was told that miners have been eviscerated if they were suspected of having swallowed a stone.
De Beers and the rest of the industry deserve credit, however, for taking the first steps toward ending the diamond-related slaughter. And, yes, the gems can be used to build up a nation's infrastructure rather than tear it apart. While the nascent democracy of Botswana does not have a diversified economy (65% of export income comes from diamonds), its calm political climate proves that these stones are not always corrosive to the places they come from. Namibia is taking steps toward creating a homegrown polishing industry, adding a long-overdue value-added layer to the extraction process. A sudden collapse of the diamond trade would spell disaster for these countries and cause starvation and chaos in other diamond zones in Africa.
It will not be a movie or even the Kimberley Process that determines whether America's favorite gemstone can be purchased ethically. That's up to the consumers, who should insist that jewelers show them proof that their suppliers have a System of Warranties statement on their invoices, demonstrating compliance with the Kimberley Process. Even if this doesn't prove that a diamond is clean, it proves that customers care about the source of their icons of love.

</file>

<file= AmE06_B09>

When Mark Foley resigned his US House seat Friday, it was because ABC News questioned the Florida Republican about his sexually explicit communications with former House pages. That it was the media and not House investigators at work points again to the failure of Congress to police itself. 
"Again," because Congress has failed multiple times this year to clean up its act. In January, mega-lobbyist Jack Abramoff pleaded guilty to corruption charges relating to influence peddling on the Hill. Both the Senate and House got all exercised about this and promised serious lobbying reform. They drew up two bills. After the outrage died, so did the bills. 
The self-serving, pay-to-play relations between lobbyists and lawmakers is a breach of trust between voters and their representatives. And in this age of terrorism, so is the fact that two years after the 9/11 commission warned Congress to reform its scattered committee structure and streamline oversight of terror- related issues, there's been little follow-through. A lawmaker's patch of committee turf, it seems, is still more important than the rest of America. 
Now it looks as if Congress has fallen into the self-interest trap again. When it came to light months ago that Mr. Foley in 2005 sent an "overfriendly" e-mail to a 16-year-old boy who was a former House page, or messenger, Republicans handled the boy's complaint internally and quietly. The House clerk and the GOP congressman in charge of the House Page Board instructed Foley to cease the communication. Neither the bipartisan Page Board nor the Ethics Committee was informed. Unbelievably Foley stayed on as co-chair of the Congressional Missing and Exploited Children's Caucus. 
House leaders say they didn't know about earlier sexually explicit Internet and cellphone communications to former pages until last week. Now, after a request from GOP House Speaker Dennis Hastert of Illinois on Sunday, the FBI is investigating. 
But why didn't alarm bells go off, even from an "overfriendly" e- mail? Internet sexual solicitation is a huge concern of parents. Those who send their high schoolers to the selective page program don't expect them to become sexual targets for lawmakers. A little digging would have turned up the earlier e-mails, which circulated among former pages. 
Over the years, sexual scandal has tarred elected officials in both parties, and so has financial impropriety. Yet this year's been a doozy for Republicans, with three ethics- related House resignations so far. Last month, the House could only muster a very weak rule change aimed at pork-barrel spending. The Senate has yet to adopt a bill allowing for easily viewed and promptly disclosed campaign donations. Last month, however, the president did sign a law to make public a database of federal grants, contracts, and loans. 
A few months ago, Speaker Hastert complained that an FBI raid on a Democrat's office (after cash was found in his home freezer) violated congressional independence. Now he's encouraging the FBI to look at lawmakers who may have known about the Foley communications. Has he just woken up to what's clear to the nation - that Congress seems incapable of reforming itself?

The world's most-admired system of higher education can't get enough respect to be left alone. The latest assault on American colleges and universities comes from the US education secretary and a panel she appointed. Their demand: Show us results. 
In essence, what Secretary Margaret Spellings and her 19-member Commission on the Future of Higher Education have recently proposed (among other recommendations) is that colleges receiving various types of federal money be held accountable for the quality of learning they provide. 
They're asking for a sort of "no college student left behind" law, similar to the 2001 one that imposed standardized testing for lower grades in public schools. Only in this case, the idea is to provide incentives for colleges to test students and find out how they are performing against academic goals, and then post this information on a federal website to help pre-college students better judge which institution to attend. 
Ms. Spellings likens the idea to buying a car: You go online and compare the data about the performance and price of different vehicles. She wants a database with similar transparency and ease for those shopping for colleges. 
Right now, the yearly ranking of colleges by U.S. News and World Report magazine provides some help. But that survey mainly looks at inputs, such as money spent on education, and also relies on reputation. Regional bodies that accredit schools of higher learning act in similar ways. 
In recent years, two surveys - the National Survey of Student Engagement and the Collegiate Learning Assessment - have tried to measure "outcomes," or what students actually get out of their costly education, such as experience in a community-based project related to a course. 
It is that new focus on results - or measuring the education bang for the tuition buck - that now has been picked up by federal government. 
Hold on, say the powerful lobbies for colleges in Washington. While they would very much like more federal money for higher education, such as research funds, they say higher education is too diverse to impose national standards. How do you measure such abilities as civic activism, ethical reasoning, creativity, or joy for lifelong learning? 
Public sentiment, however, has drifted toward seeing a college education largely as a career launcher. And resentment is mounting against tuitions that rise faster than inflation and family income, creating public pressure to demand more of colleges. 
One way out of this impasse is for government to be flexible in defining the standards for performance. Many schools already gauge the results of their education. These internal assessments, as well as the national surveys measuring "student outcomes," can be made public, and then collated in a federal website. Government could hold schools accountable for their education based on their individual missions. 
There are dangers to imposing "one size fits all" criteria on colleges. At the same time, colleges might find common criteria among themselves in how to measure success. Spellings and college leaders can surely work together to find a consumer-friendly, performance database.

It's quite understandable for Iraq watchers to focus on security, especially when killings reach 100 a day. But with the war now mainly a fight for Baghdad between Arab Sunnis and Shiites, another focus should be on a new plan to reconcile the two sides with an amnesty. 
An offer of forgiveness was made last month by Iraq's new prime minister, Nouri al-Maliki. On Saturday, an Iraqi national commission on reconciliation, made up of leaders of various political and religious stripes, met for the first time - although some Sunni leaders did not attend. They say the amnesty didn't go far enough to include insurgents who have killed Iraqis or foreign troops. 
Final details of the plan will be as critical for peace as the number of US and Iraqi troops in the capital. Amnesty is one more step in an attempt to unify Iraq through political compromise - which will be far more effective than the use of force. Bullets don't win hearts. But openheartedness can. 
A big step toward reconciliation was achieved only this year with a balanced, elected government under a popular constitution. Compromise is still needed on remaining Sunni demands, such as fair distribution of Iraq's oil wealth. A final step in ending the insurgency and disbanding local militias will be amnesty. Next month, the Arab League will help sponsor a conference to reconcile the religious and ethnic groups in Iraq. 
Other nations that have gone through civil conflict can provide different blueprints for Iraq in balancing a demand for justice with a need for reconciliation. Post-conflict amnesty, such as that granted to losing soldiers after the American Civil War or World War II, is much easier than forgiveness during a conflict. 
Iraq will need to tread carefully in choosing which insurgents should be punished or forgiven. Right now the offer is extended only to "those who have not taken part in criminal and terrorist acts and war crimes and crimes against humanity." That may exclude many insurgents but not the thousands of supporters working behind the scenes. The government claims seven Sunni military groups have asked for more details. That's a breakthrough not only for the Sunnis but for the dominant Shiite powerbrokers who have refused to talk to the militants. 
At the least, such openings provide more information to the government on the types and numbers of insurgents. Shiite militias, too, will need to step forward and ask for amnesty, a step that Shiite Grand Ayatollah Ali al-Sistani, as Iraq's most powerful figure, should encourage. 
It seems impossible right now that many militants will give up their arms anytime soon. Just look at the slow pace of disarmament in Northern Ireland. But as Prime Minister Maliki said, an amnesty is "the only bridge and crossing point through which we can reach the safe shore that unites the sons of the Iraqi people, ends the violent situation, provides stability and puts an end to all discriminatory ideas, whether of sect, political party, or race." 
Strange as it may sound in the midst of ongoing vendettas that are bordering on civil war, Mr. Maliki has asked Iraqis to unite their splintered nation with "brotherhood and love." For Arab Sunnis and Shiites to see their own futures tied together is a leap of faith. Having an amnesty "bridge" may help them do it.

One classic claim has been that teachers favor boys because they tend to raise their hands more. By the 1990s, as schools began to cater more to girls, that debate swung back in favor of arguments that boys were the victims in schools, partly because of attempts to feminize them out of certain "boy habits." Both sides cited data to support their claims, with each calling for either "girl-friendly" or "boy-friendly" classrooms. 
The latest salvo in this gender war came last week with a study by the progressive think-tank Educator Sector. Researcher Sara Mead looked at national education data and concluded that boys are not doing worse than girls, but girls are simply doing better. "With few exceptions, American boys are scoring higher and achieving more than they ever have before," she writes. Her analysis, going back to 1971, is based on test scores and other academic data in the federally funded National Assessment of Educational Progress. 
What's more, she contends that the boy-vs.-girl debate distracts attention from practical ways to help both boys and girls, especially the many black and Hispanic children who are really the groups falling behind. 
Single-sex public schools had all but disappeared by the 1980s, but they have slowly returned, with about 44 in the US this past school year. With many schools expected to adopt the idea, a constitutional challenge is likely over whether girls and boys can be offered similar opportunities for education when separated, and perhaps taught differently. 
The larger issue, though, is whether such schools can provide better educational benefits. The research on that must be carefully tracked. 
Many public schools simply try a variety of new ways to tailor teaching to each gender. More fathers, for instance, are being asked to read to sons at home. Such techniques begin to acknowledge that each student needs her or his own learning focus, based on the idea that both sexes can express masculine and feminine qualities in unique ways. 
Grown-up expectations of children - such as young boys are hyperactive, or teen girls are mean-tongued - may tend to stigmatize children, limiting their potential. Such narrowing expectations are becoming stronger because of recent scientific research on the child brain that claims certain behaviors are "hard-wired." Such research should be used cautiously. 
Single-sex schools, too, should be approached cautiously. Most of the time, children are just children, and that greater, shared experience of wonder and joy should be encouraged. Such schools may not be right for every child. And the ultimate goal of reducing all types of learning disparities should not be lost.

</file>

<file= AmE06_B10>

George W. Bush is the latest President to learn a painful political lesson: Americans get very unhappy when gasoline prices spike, and they take it out on the guy in the White House.
Throughout the Bush Presidency, the pattern has been striking. Whatever else is happening, from temporary triumphs in Iraq to Administration scandals, when prices at the pump jump for more than a month, the President's popularity almost always falls. Indeed, throughout the Bush Presidency, changes in the Energy Dept.'s monthly pump price survey closely parallel the President's disapproval rating, as measured by the Gallup Poll.

As it turns out, a BusinessWeek analysis of historical data finds that this problem has bedeviled Presidents at least since 1973, when the Arab oil embargo created gas lines, a price spiral toward 55 cents per gallon, and an additional headache for President Richard Nixon. Of course, price spikes aren't the sole cause of falling Presidential popularity. The relationship is a correlation, and other factors contribute to public perceptions of a President.

Nixon had to deal with not just gas prices but Watergate. Jimmy Carter faced the Iran hostage crisis and economic stagflation. George H.W. Bush was hurt by a sluggish economy and a backlash against a tax increase. And Bill Clinton was slowed by scandal fatigue. But through it all, the striking relationship between rising gas prices and plunging Presidential popularity stands out.

One other bit of bad news for the current President: History suggests that while rising gas prices are very bad for incumbents, falling gas prices don't necessarily help Presidents improve their job approval ratings.
Here comes another wild ride on the roller coaster of health advice. For years we have been told that eating less fat and munching on more fruits and veggies can work magic, preventing everything from heart disease to cancer. Now a study of 48,835 women, part of the Women's Health Initiative, says that such "healthier" diets bring no benefits.
The study was published by the respected Journal of the American Medical Assn.(JAMA). But before you rush out for fast food, ask a few simple questions. What did the study actually examine? Do its data support such a sweeping conclusion? We often overreact to studies that are more limited and uncertain than we realize. One startling fact: Fully one-third of all dramatic new findings simply don't hold up in later studies. Remember hormone replacement therapy? Once presumed to cut heart disease risk, it was later found to be dangerous -- and now doctors are questioning those supposed risks.

Among other things, the new diet report shows how research dollars can be won for questionable studies. In the early 1990s, when the study was proposed, prominent researchers such as Harvard's Dr. Walter Willett argued that it wasn't worth doing. Reviewers at the National Institutes of Health turned it down for funding. But Dr. Bernadine Healy, appointed as NIH director in 1991, lobbied relentlessly for support for the suite of studies that make up the Women's Health Initiative. "It was an end-run through Congress that got it approved," Willett recalls.

Based on its design, the trial had little chance of making major advances in the science of nutrition. It set out to compare women eating normal diets with women asked to eat less fat and more fruits and vegetables. But the two groups' diets really didn't differ all that much. Those with "healthier" diets cut calories from fat by only 8.2% compared with the normal group and ate only 1.1 additional servings of fruits and vegetables a day. That's too small a difference to expect health benefits.

What's more, scientists now know that the type of fat we eat is generally more important than the amount. Monounsaturated fats, such as those in olive oil, or omega-3 fats found in fish are healthier than saturated fat, as in butter or beef. Worst of all are so-called trans fats, which are created by adding hydrogen to natural fat. Trans fats are widely used in everything from margarine to cookies, and have been linked with increased risks of heart disease. By focusing just on total fat intake, the study missed a chance to tease out the effects of these different types of fat. "It's really important not to go away with the message that diets don't matter," says Willett.

There are larger lessons as well about how science works. The detailed methods of a study are crucial, and their limitations are often glossed over. When Dr. Steven Woloshin of Dartmouth Medical School looked at press releases trumpeting various scientific articles, "we found that 77% failed to mention the study's limitations," he says. And up to half of all articles exaggerated the actual benefit or risk being studied.

One common distortion is to present the effects of a treatment or intervention in relative terms, such as saying that a particular diet or drug cut the death rate in half. That sounds huge, but it might mean that there was only one death per million people instead of two, which is a reduction in actual risk that's too small to matter. All this helps explain why science so often seems to be flip-flopping. And there's no mystery about why results are often exaggerated: Researchers, medical centers, and scientific journals are all competing for funds and publicity, just like everyone else.

The truth is, science is often less definitive than people think. Even when a study does find a clear benefit or danger, the results may not be applicable to the real world, where people have more complicated health issues and medicine isn't so black and white. There's a long list of treatments and medical interventions, from bypass operations to back surgery, where the benefits may not be as great as once thought. What does this mean for diet? "We don't want to be morbidly obese or too skinny," says Dr. Nortin Hadler, professor of medicine at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, "and it's pretty compelling that between those two extremes, we can't measure many differences." So try to stay fit, keep your weight down, aim for a relatively healthy diet, and don't worry too much about the latest headlines in the medical journals.
"We've been setting targets and making them," says Marilyn O'Connell, Verizon senior vice-president for video services.

Verizon and other telecoms are counting on Internet and TV revenues to offset their steadily eroding income from local and long-distance calling. The new competition is putting great strain on the balance sheets of cable and telecom players, while consumers emerge as the big winners. Over the next five years they will likely see dramatic improvements in TV and Internet services and relief from ever-skyrocketing prices. Verizon is charging about $100 a month for a package of TV, Internet, and phone services in Keller, competitive with cable and satellite offerings in town.

Town residents are taking their role as video pioneers quite seriously. Like thousands of neighbors, Vernon Drewa, a retired manager for the Federal Aviation Administration, canceled his old provider, satellite service DirecTV, and signed up with Verizon. He likes the sharp quality on his five TVs -- and the lack of interruptions that plagued his satellite signal on stormy days. As a history buff who swaps research around the world, he is thrilled to download a 2,500-page document in less than 10 minutes instead of the hour it used to take with his old Verizon hookup. There's no turning back for Drewa. He recently ripped down the 12-foot satellite dish in his yard. "I took it to the lake house," he says. "I'm hoping it will work as a fish hatchery."

On a nearby street, local real estate agent Marc Clemons has become one of the most popular guys on the block. The neighborhood kids flock to Clemons' two-story house to play video games at superfast speeds on his fiber-optic-wired flat-screen TV. When he's not playing host, he and his wife watch their favorite shows and marvel at the rich picture. "All my neighbors have to do is see the clarity, and they've got to have it," says Clemons.

For all of Verizon's gains, though, it's too early to write off cable and satellite providers. Keller, 14 miles northeast of Fort Worth, won't be an easy model to replicate elsewhere in the country. Verizon chose an affluent venue with an existing cable provider that offered no phone service. Cattle still graze on a few remaining undeveloped tracts, but most of the farmland has turned into street after street of homes that average about $250,000. Attracted by a well-regarded school district and an easy commute to Dallas and Fort Worth, upwardly mobile families (93% of residents are under 60, with average household income near $100,000) are flocking to town.

It's a great place to do business, too. Highway 377, the main thoroughfare through Keller and adjacent bedroom communities, is a magnet for the usual cast of fast-food chains, banks, and retailers. When Verizon, the main phone company in Keller by virtue of the 2000 Bell Atlantic Co.-GTE Corp. merger, approached City Hall two years ago for permission to upgrade with fiber optics and later to get a TV franchise, there was little resistance. "Our initial response was, 'why not?"' recalls City Manager Lyle H. Dresher. Fiber optics could be a drawing card to attract tax-paying businesses to Keller. And if overall revenues for video services increase, the city gains from its 5% cut of whatever Verizon makes there.

PERFECT TARGET 
It's surely no coincidence that Verizon picked a town where it could cinch a franchise agreement without long delays. Because most of Keller's infrastructure is new, fiber optics could easily be installed through modern underground conduits without tearing up local streets. What's more, Verizon was able to pit its sales effort against a weaker, local cable franchise, Charter Communications (CHTR ), rather than one of the cable industry's bigger guns like Comcast (CMCSA ) or Time Warner Cable (TWX ). Charter contends competition is nothing new. In fact, the cable company appears to have preemptively lowered its fees for new service by as much as 50% before Verizon arrived. Charter denies that its promotion was related to Verizon's entry.

Still, persuading consumers to let a phone outfit provide television service is a huge challenge. Verizon decided that the usual mass-marketing effort would cost too much and be ineffective in such a tiny market. So Marketing Director Brian Angiolet devised a guerrilla campaign, staging events that included offering kids the chance to dabble with the fast Net speeds and crisp video. "We asked ourselves who would most appreciate downloading at up to 5 or 15 [megabits per second]," says Angiolet.

The huge capacity of fiber optics means Verizon can promise to keep adding bells and whistles. It already delivers about 400 channels, including more than 20 high-def outlets. And the company claims it will be able to add more local programming and foreign language packages.

The cable guys contend they can continue increasing speeds and capacity without paying for fiber-optic lines running to the home, largely because they have spent $100 billion since 1996 to upgrade their lines. They already have a big lead in broadband Internet and are taking sizable market share from the telecoms by selling customers bundles that include telephone services.

Just the same, Verizon is picking up momentum in Texas, where it has introduced fiber-optic TV in 15 other towns. The telecoms got a huge break last summer when Texas passed a law that establishes standard state-issued franchises. This makes it possible to enter new markets without negotiating franchises with each locale. Verizon will need other states to follow suit if it is to keep on its game plan.

Difficult politics and increasing costs are about to kick in as Verizon broadens its campaign -- not to mention its having to face down fierce counter-tactics by the cable giants. So Verizon executives may not want to extrapolate too much from the honeymoon in Keller.

</file>

<file= AmE06_B11>

THE UNITED States left the Turin Olympics with 25 medals and almost as many unhappy memories of lost opportunities.
Much of the pre-Games hype centered on erstwhile world champion skier Bode Miller, who was slow when he wasn't clumsy -- and worse yet, professed not to care much. Speed skaters Chad Hedrick and Shani Davis tarnished their medal-winning performances with their testy exchanges in public. Snowboarder Lindsey Jacobellis was zipping toward an impressive victory when she decided to add a touch of flair -- grabbing her board in mid-air -- and stumbled into second place.
Another would-be megastar of the Games, U.S. figure skater Sasha Cohen, fell twice at the start of her long program. To her credit, she persevered with a powerfully graceful finish - then accepted the silver medal with a joy and class that was too often missing from American stars in Turin.
As always, there were plenty of inspiring performances in the Olympics -- veteran speedskater Apolo Anton Ohno and "Flying Tomato" snowboarder Shaun White among them -- but no certified American idol emerged from these Games.
Did we say "American Idol?" Count NBC among the disappointed. It spent $600 million for the broadcast rights, and kept getting swamped in the ratings by a Fox show featuring amateurs without any pretension of world-class proficiency.
CALIFORNIA'S prison system is arguably the most troubled of any state endeavor.
The sudden resignation of Roderick Hickman, Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger's secretary of corrections and rehabilitation, only adds to the perceptions of a prison system in crisis.
Hickman said he is quitting because he did not get the support he needed from Schwarzenegger.
Hickman has grounds to be frustrated.
Regrettably, it seems that Schwarzenegger has backed off on his pledge to make "rehabilitation" a major goal of the prison system. He changed the name of the department to include "rehabilitation" in the title, but instead of expanding rehabilitation programs they have been scaled back.
His administration's goal to reduce the prison population by 15,000 went nowhere. Instead, the prison population has continued to rise, reaching a record 168,000 inmates.
During his first year in office, he courageously reversed former Gov. Gray Davis' policy of rejecting all but six of the recommendation from the Board of Prison Terms to release inmates serving indeterminate life terms. However, last year he began to imitate his predecessor by rejecting more and more parole board's recommendations.
Instead of working to reform California's flawed "three strikes" law, Schwarzenegger played a decisive role in defeating Proposition 66 in 2004. The initiative would have reformed the law by requiring the third strike to be a serious or violent felony. Without this reform, hundreds of inmates are unnecessarily serving life sentences because of the law -- at a huge cost to the taxpayers.
Most disturbing, the only reform initiative Schwarzenegger is pushing is to add an astonishing 83,000 prison and county jail cells -- at a cost of $200,000 per cell.
What about all that talk about reducing the prison population?
No wonder Hickman is frustrated. At the same time, he has come to symbolize the unacceptable gap between rhetoric and results that characterizes the Schwarzenegger administration's prison-reform efforts. It may be time for new leadership at the top.
Schwarzenegger and his staff continue to insist that he is committed to "rehabilitation" -- but his words and actions speak otherwise. If he is indeed committed to real reform, he should make a public statement to that effect. He should commit to reducing the prison population, to reforming the parole system, which must include effective "re-entry" programs for parolees. He must commit to amending the state's sentencing laws that continue to jam our prisons far beyond their capacity.
Schwarzenegger has had no difficulty declaring a "state of emergency" to fix the state's levee system. Perhaps he should consider a similar "state of emergency" for the prison system -- and get cracking on fixing it.
WITH THE 100TH anniversary of the San Francisco earthquake two months off, we'll likely hear that government up and down the tree is ready to handle a repeat.
If Hurricane Katrina is any guide, it's time to think again. Authorities from the local level all the way to Washington bungled the hurricane response, deepening a disaster for which there was ample warning, pinpoint plans, and a newly tooled Department of Homeland Security poised for action. The hurricane was a chance for the nation's brand-new domestic security system to shine, not founder.
It didn't turn out that way. In fact, the official negligence was a disaster itself. The inaction may have worsened the toll of 1,300 dead, hundreds of thousands left homeless and billions in damage.
A congressional report this week sums up the problem through its governmental lens: What was missing was initiative -- the ability to see a problem and take considered action.
Money, relief convoys, extra cots on dry ground: None of it matters if the likes of homeland security chief Michael Chertoff, emergency director Michael Brown and a list of feckless Louisiana politicians can't decide what to do. This muddle includes a White House that was distant and coldly uninterested during Katrina's advance and arrival.
Pounding home the point that government officialdom blew it isn't startling. But this time, look who's doing the finger-pointing. The denunciation comes in a Republican-written report. Democrats had boycotted the panel's work, thinking it would be a whitewash to safeguard the GOP in an election year.
The panel didn't play favorites, parceling out blame to nearly everyone with an assigned role. "Katrina was a national failure, an abdication of the most solemn obligation to provide for the common welfare,'' the committee report said.
Looking forward, there's a bigger message than the rearview- mirror blame-game that goes with government bungling.
California and the Bay Area remain at nature's mercy from weather, earthquakes or fire. It's time to check and recheck local plans to make sure everyone's on the same page, and emergency planners can take on the dicey game of managing disasters on the fly.
An earthquake won't come with a warning. Other California-style perils come with little advance notice. Wildfires nearing Southern California suburbs, flood waters rising in populated areas, and a levee collapsing in the Delta could happen within hours.
Emergency workers have tried to anticipate such disasters, working hard to prepare the response of public-safety agencies and the public. Still, as Katrina showed, the results can hinge on official judgment and initiative. Let's make sure we're ready.
QUARRELSOME Washington has found a motherhood issue at last. Both President Bush and Congress want to pour a river of money into research labs and science classrooms.
The idea comes ready-equipped with instant appeal and long-term promise. Businesses, universities and scientists have clamored for years to boost cash-starved research programs that put the country at the forefront of innovation. The Internet, medical innovations such as laser surgery, and tech devices such as global-positioning satellites are examples of what government-sponsored research can produce.
Unfortunately, the country has coasted for years on past successes. Along with static federal support for continued research, foreign competitors have picked up the pace. Tech leaders and educators here note that India and China are investing heavily in colleges that turn out engineers, software designers and researchers.
American students, uninspired by what they find in math or science class, are choosing other careers. Worries about a globalized economy eating away at U.S. advantages should begin with this failure to inspire and educate the next generation of lab techs, experimenters and tinkerers.
A 500-page study by the National Academy of Sciences spoke out on the sense of drift that was eating away at American prowess. "We are worried about the future prosperity of the United States,'' the report stated. "We fear the abruptness with which an edge in science and technology can be lost ... This nation must prepare with great urgency to preserve its strategic and economic security.''
This anxious call went out last October, and now it appears the message has finally sunk in at the White House. The president's proposal could repair the damage. Or it could dwindle away as another forgotten policy plank from a low-wattage State of the Union address.
Bush is calling for $50 billion over 10 years, making his pledge dependent on future leadership. Plans launched now can't work unless they are carried on for years.
It's also not clear where the money will be found by a White House that seems unable to break its addiction to tax-cut politics. The president, mired with a 42 percent approval rating, clearly sees a research-and-science package as a conflict-free crowd-pleaser.
His new message also has the potential to change his image as profoundly anti-science in outlook. He has tolerated "intelligent design'' as a legitimate alternative to evolutionary theory, doubted the existence of global warming, and undercut federal attempts at stem-cell research. His pledge to push for bolder federal involvement in furthering science could be a welcome break from this sorry record.
Politics aside, the White House proposal hits all the right chords. It seeks money to train 70,000 math and science school teachers. Better-trained students would go on to work the research labs, where more money would boost deep-science budgets. Neglected agencies such as the National Science Foundation, the National Institute of Standards and Technology and the Department of Energy's Office of Science would have their funding doubled.
It's an ambitious vision that rolls far into the future. But a long timetable, for better or worse, is what serious science needs to do its best work. There will be flops and half-baked plans. But there should be benefits and breakthroughs if the strategy is executed well and given time. Results won't come overnight, especially for a president and Congress hoping to erase an image of dysfunction, corruption and gridlock.
"Democrats agree,'' said House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi of San Francisco, when asked what she thought of the package.
Two similar GOP-authored bills to upgrade science teaching and extend tax breaks for research are already before Congress, meaning that timely action is possible. Given that both parties favor the same goals, the prospects for action are good.
The president's "American Competition Initiative'' is especially favorable for the Bay Area. This is home to major research facilities such as UC Berkeley, Stanford and the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory. It's also a center for technology and biotech work by private firms.
Silicon Valley was impressed after feeling slightly neglected by a Bush team preoccupied by Iraq and other priorities. "I had to wait six years to hear about long-term investment,'' said Carl Guardino, president of the public-policy oriented Silicon Valley Leadership Group. "But it was good to hear it.''
President Bush has set a marker for a national pledge to boost research and science education. He should capitalize on a willing attitude in Congress to make sure the program happens. It's a chance to push both the nation and the boundaries of science forward.
ALWAYS STOIC, humble and soft-spoken, Coretta Scott King could have easily been cast off as the woman behind the great man. Instead, many called her the "first lady of the civil-rights movement."
After her husband's assassination in 1968, she was thrust into the public spotlight. Quietly, and always with grace, she raised her four children while fighting to preserve and expand her husband's legacy.
Building on the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr.'s dream, King made the civil rights a human-rights issue, preaching nonviolence, fighting for gay rights and raising awareness of AIDS in the black community. She was outspoken against gun violence, and violence in films, TV and video games. King fought to keep her husband's memory alive by lobbying to make his birthday a federal holiday and establishing the King Center in Atlanta. Some criticized King for abandoning her husband's mission when she spoke on different issues. The King family also faced criticism when its members fought publicly over the fate of the King Center.

</file>

<file= AmE06_B12>

ON THURSDAY, President Bush commuted the prison sentence of Phillip Emmert, who was convicted on methamphetamine charges and sentenced to 22 years, followed by five years of supervised release in 1992. May a new era of compassionate conservatism be upon us. 
Bush has used his commutation powers before. With Emmert's commutation and the 16 pardons issued on Dec. 21, Bush has issued 113 pardons and commutations while in office. This is, however, the first time that Bush has cut years from an offender's sentence, and a drug offender at that. 
Margaret C. Love, who was the pardon attorney under the first President Bush, said of the Emmert commutation, "This appears to be exactly the kind of case where the president needs to intervene, and he is to be commended for doing it. But why only one after all these years? Given what we know about federal drug sentences, it is hard to believe that this case is the only one that merits a sentence reduction." 
I, too, have criticized Bush for not commuting more sentences, but there is no denying how politically risky pardons can be. When he was Texas governor in 1995, Bush pardoned a man who had been convicted for growing marijuana in his back yard, only to see the man, who had become a deputy constable, arrested for stealing cocaine from a suspect within four months of his pardon. 
In Emmert's case, Bush has put off his release until Jan. 20, and required Emmert to fulfill his five years' supervised release. 
As a conservative, I think it is important that Bush is clear- eyed and has smart standards. I've seen those who would turn convicted cop-killer Mumia abu Jamal into a martyr. Ditto the executed Stanley Tookie Williams. Their most ardent advocates made excuses for their criminal actions and never seemed to care that these men took innocent lives. 
According to the Washington Post, the Bush administration gives weight to a prisoner's "acceptance of responsibility and showing remorse" -- as well as the seriousness of the crime, how long ago it was committed, compelling need, post-conviction conduct and whether criminal-justice officials involved in the case support clemency. 
Emmert's story fit those criteria. His history, provided to me by Families Against Mandatory Minimums, tells how Emmert rehabilitated himself in prison so that he was moved from a medium-security facility to a minimum-security camp. 
One other aspect of Emmert's story -- the disproportionate and unduly severe sentence he received -- should be among Bush's criteria. Emmert had one prior conviction for driving without a license. A 22-year sentence for a low-level function in a first drug offense is insane. 
America would be a better country if Bush were to commute sentences for other nonviolent drug offenders. Clarence Aaron was sentenced to life without parole for a first-time nonviolent drug offense in 1992, when he was 22, and will die in prison without intervention. That sentence is positively medieval. 
This is not a drug case, but next month, two Border Patrol agents, Jose Alonso Compean and Ignacio Ramos, will begin serving 12 and 11-year sentences for shooting a fleeing drug smuggler in the buttocks, not filing the necessary reports and depriving the smuggler of his Fourth Amendment right to be free from illegal seizure. Bush should commute their sentences before they report for prison. These two men have paid enough for their mistakes. 
Readers frequently ask me what they can do to help win commutations for those serving draconian federal drug sentences. The time to act is now. Write the White House and let the president know you support his commutation of Emmert's sentence and you would like to see more. Show Washington there is political benefit in showing mercy. 

DONALD TRUMP has figured out that America is addicted to addiction stories. With Tara Conner, the current Miss USA, you see the pattern with red-white-and-blue efficiency: Young hottie works hard, makes it, parties too hard, is seen bouncing half-naked on Fox News every 20 minutes, middle-aged male solons on same network tut- tut young babe's immorality, and when that gets old even for middle- aged men, she enters rehab. 
Yes, this is the age of the short- attention span scandal. Over- achievers hit rock bottom before they're 21. 
And what a story, with the possibility that Trump could utter his signature "you're fired" phrase. Thus, Miss USA's story was exported to media around the globe. O joy to the world. 
Shame as a spectator sport? To believe that, you have to believe that Trump has moral standards, although I suppose one can believe that The Donald has moral standards for other people. You also have to believe that Conner is truly ashamed, not pretend shamed, of stories that have garnered more press coverage than her coronation. (A Nexis check of news stories on Conner showed 94 stories this week, compared to 10 when she won her tiara.) 
You don't have to be a cynical New Yorker to figure that people don't care about beauty pageants as they did 40 years ago, but if Trump Inc. can throw in some silicone and scandal, maybe pageants could make a comeback. Here's a fitting slogan: Miss USA, she's not wholesome any more. 
Anyone who has seen Conner's bikini strut -- and if you watch TV news, you've seen it -- should be clear on Conner's image. She was not about "world peace" -- unless you spell it p-i-e-c-e. Her presentation was a celebration of youth and sex appeal. 
So who is Trump to harrumph if Miss USA wants to have some fun? True, until Conner turned 21 on Monday, it was not legal for her to drink, and there have been rumors of drug use. Leave such matters to the authorities, not a comb-over morality czar. 
And spare me all that nonsense about Miss USA being a role model. Actually, she is a model. Given her tearful gushing at Trump's decision to give her a "second chance," Conner may be an actress, too. 
She did, however, seem none too pleased to be cast in the role of alcoholic. It says something about the demands of the scandal machine that a 20-year-old can't simply go wild when handed goodies and freed from parental supervision. No, she has to have a disease. 
When she exits rehab, Trump noted at Tuesday's press conference, Conner can be "a great example for troubled people." You don't have to close your eyes to imagine the segment on Oprah, with a bright- eyed Miss USA marveling at how Trump and rehab helped turn her life around. 
At the press conference, Trump and Conner both trumpeted the beauty of a world that gives people "a second chance," but methinks they had their eye on the Second Act. 

The new law is not being followed by all: The Children's Advocacy Institute, a San Diego-based research and lobbying group that co-sponsored the 2004 law, requested the names for 2005 from all 58 counties. Nearly a year later, they're still waiting for two counties to respond. 
The names that they do have for 2005 -- 48 so far -- offer more questions than answers. What does it mean, for example, that nine of the deaths were children age 17 or older, five of whom were within six weeks of their 18th birthday? Are 17-year-olds simply more likely to get in car accidents? Suffer drug overdoses? Skateboard without helmets? Or does it mean the fulfillment of our worst fears -- that some children, facing the harsh realities of homelessness and desperation when they "age out" of the system at 18, are taking their own lives instead? 
"There's no way to get more information without going to the courts," said Christina Riehl, staff attorney for the Children's Advocacy Institute. 
There is absolutely no reason why an advocacy group, a newspaper, an elected official, or any other concerned member of the public should have to go to court to find out what happened when a foster youth dies. 
But due to California's baffling policies on disclosure, it's extraordinarily difficult for the public to learn who in the system is dying and why. Nearly every bill that has come through the Legislature in the past several years has been stonewalled by the County Welfare Directors' Association. 
Take AB1817, a very modest bill sponsored by Assemblyman Bill Maze, R-Visalia, three years ago. Concerned about a wave of foster children's deaths in his district, Maze simply wanted legislators to be allowed to review the case files of deceased children in the system. But he couldn't get his bill out of the Judiciary Committee. 
"They said that, as an elected official, I'd just use these cases as a political forum," said Maze. "I think it's just baloney. We need to know if there's some kind of pattern or trend or lack of oversight in case management, because, until we know that, we won't know how to fix the problem. But needless to say, I've been fought against on this issue tremendously by the welfare directors of this state." 
Maze is not the only one frustrated by the lack of information about child deaths from California's social-services bureaucracies. Last year, the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services determined that the state was violating federal law by failing to file reports about the deaths and near-deaths of children due to abuse or neglect. Threatened with the loss of $60 million in child- welfare funds, this summer the state began requiring counties to file these reports. But -- and here's the rub -- the Department of Social Services keeps all names confidential, even in the case of foster children. 
Imagine -- our state's most vulnerable children, betrayed by a state system that was supposed to protect them -- and we have no idea who they are. A look at the questionnaires the state started providing this July offer only haunting glimpses of their fates: 
-- On July 30, a 15-year-old foster child died after either jumping or being pushed from a moving car in a suspected sexual assault. 
-- On Aug. 17, a 2-year-old foster child drowned after her foster parents left her alone in a bath tub. 
-- On Aug. 24, a 16-year-old committed suicide by shooting himself in the head after telling his sibling that he couldn't take their legal guardian's abuse anymore. 
Confidentiality is important, especially when it comes to protecting the identities of family members and abuse reporters. We understand, as well, that it's important to protect the names of abused children who suffer near-fatalities but are expected to recover. But there are no good reasons why the full case files -- including names, counties and histories -- for dead foster children shouldn't be open to all of us. There can't be any accountability without transparency. 
When we asked Sue Diedrich, assistant general counsel for the state Department of Social Services, why they couldn't tell us more, she said that the state could risk its federal funding. 
That's simply not true, according to a federal official who tracks the issue. 
"Federal law doesn't require that a state release (those details), but it doesn't prohibit those disclosures either," said Susan Orr, associate commissioner of the children's bureau in the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. Indeed, there are at least two states, Georgia and South Carolina, which offer up just the sort of connect-the-dots information that an informed public needs -- and unlike California, they haven't had any threats of a funding cut-off. 
There is a solution to this, and this year Assembly members Sharon Runner and Karen Bass even tried to offer it. It was AB2938, which required the release of juvenile court records, and county and state files, in the case of a child death pertaining to abuse or neglect. AB2938 should be expanded to include the deaths of foster children, regardless of whether or not they died as a result of abuse or neglect.

</file>

<file= AmE06_B13>

A man who spent more than half his life in prison for crimes he didn't commit was freed this week thanks to DNA evidence. Alan Crotzer, 45, was the fifth Florida inmate cleared by DNA in recent years.
Whether in real life or on TV dramas, DNA evidence has proven to be a neutral tool in determining guilt or innocence. It has the potential to establish a person's innocence, as it did with Crotzer, and it can confirm guilt, as it did with Roger Keith Coleman, a Virginia man executed in 1992 for murder.
What we have learned as science becomes increasingly more sophisticated is that the main forms of evidence on which our justice system has relied, including eyewitness testimony and even forced confessions, are too often unreliable.
Crotzer had been sentenced to 130 years in prison for armed robbery and rape and served 24 years before DNA tests proved his innocence.
Before Virginia Gov. Mark Warner left office earlier this month, he ordered DNA testing in the case of Coleman, who was electrocuted in 1992 for killing his sister-in-law. Coleman had maintained his innocence to the end, but DNA capabilities not available earlier showed otherwise.
So far, none of the 1,005 people executed since the U.S. Supreme Court reinstated the death penalty in 1976 have been proven innocent using DNA. But that's no cause for complacency. To the contrary, more than 100 people on death row have been exonerated of their crimes thanks to DNA testing.
Warner did the right thing in ordering the Coleman test and trying to determine if justice had been served.
DNA in Colorado has never been used to free anyone from prison, Department of Public safety spokesman Lance Clem said. But it has been used to exonerate plenty of suspects before they were convicted.
Under a new law in Colorado, every prisoner entering the state prison system is required to provide a DNA sample for the files. It has already proved useful in a case involving a Thornton man accused of rape, who has now been implicated in three other rapes dating back to 2002, said Clem.
The growing number of cases in which people have been exonerated with DNA should give prosecutors pause.
'Are you ready for what you waited so long to hear?' state Circuit Judge J. Rogers Padgett asked Crotzer on Monday. 'Motion granted, you're a free man.'
The prosecutor, Mike Sinacore, got it right when he said, "Trying to fix an error in the system is just as important as trying to convict someone who is guilty."
Focus on the Family, the Colorado Springs-based organization of conservative Christians, has endorsed a measure by Sen. Shawn Mitchell, R-Broomfield, that would expand legal benefits to non- married heads of households, no matter the orientation of the couple. The position seemed a contrast to the group's vigorous efforts to 'preserve traditional values and the institution of the family.'
The legislation itself is a direct challenge to a civil unions proposal by Rep. Tom Plant, D-Nederland, that will ask voters to grant same-sex partners a menu of rights now only extended to married couples, such as inheriting property, making medical decisions on behalf of a partner and child support arrangements.
Jim Pfaff, state policy analyst for Focus, said Mitchell's bill is a 'common-sense alternative' to the domestic partnership legislation. 'A domestic partnership bill based on sexual orientation is giving extra benefits to a class that has a high standard of living at the expense of other adults who are at or near the poverty level, and we believe that's discriminatory,' he said.
Mitchell's bill extends a range of benefits to unmarried people who sign what he calls a 'reciprocal beneficiary agreement.' He says relatives, friends, roommates and same-sex couples would all be eligible.
His bill covers such a broad potpourri of relations that we wonder if it will seem reasonable to most lawmakers or voters, but such a measure opens a new front in the debate on what rights to extend in the nation's ever-increasing number of non-traditional households - living arrangements that Donna Reed would be hard-put to recognize. While benefits would include dependent health care coverage, property-sharing rights, funeral decisions and organ donations, Mitchell intentionally excluded issues related to parental or guardianship rights over a child or child-support issues. 'This doesn't try to recreate the family structure,' he said.
Pfaff said that while Mitchell's Senate Bill 166 includes same- sex couples, 'it is not premised on sexual orientation.' If it were, the group would not support it, he said.
It's a subtle way to show some tolerance in the debate over same- sex rights, and Focus also surprised some observers this week on a matter of popular culture when it endorsed the film "End of the Spear," despite the casting of a gay actor in the lead role. The movie depicts the real-life slaying of missionaries in Ecuador. Some other Christian groups bashed it because of the casting, but Focus' media critic Bob Waliszewski said his website assesses the content of entertainment offerings "rather than the skeletons in the closet of every actor, producer, cameraman. We just don't go there." What matters, he said, is that "it's a wonderful story. It's well done."

We were pleasantly surprised last week when Focus on the Family expressed its support for state legislation that would provide expanded legal benefits for same-sex couples and other non- traditional households.
In the chaos of domestic-partner, civil-union and gay-marriage measures, there will be plenty of time to take sides in 2006 as state lawmakers and voters consider whether to expand the standing of same-sex couples to anything that resembles heterosexual marriage.
The inevitable result of the combination tax cut fever/spending spree indulged in by Congress and the Bush administration came Thursday when Congress raised the limit on the national debt to an unprecedented $9 trillion - about $30,000 for every man, woman and child in the United States.
There was nothing inevitable about this mess. Under President Bill Clinton, the federal budget enjoyed four years of surpluses - the longest such run since before the Great Depression - before Bush took over in 2001. Tax cuts, wars in Afghanistan and Iraq and Gulf Coast hurricane damage, coupled with unchecked increases in pork barrel spending and the new Medicare drug benefit have since generated $400 billion annual deficits.
Obviously, the congressional budget process is broken. It can't be fixed quickly, but two rules long followed by the Colorado General Assembly would help restore accountability to Congress.
The first commendable Colorado rule is that any amendment to a bill must fit under that bill's title, which can be narrowed as it passes through the legislative process but not broadened. Thus, if a bill originally says 'Farm subsidies for apples and oranges,' it can be later narrowed to only cover apples. But it can't be expanded to include a $180 million rain forest in Iowa.
Such a rule requiring amendments to be germane to a bill would stop the farces that routinely tie up Congress when anti-abortion riders or other hot issues are tagged on to unrelated bills such as military appropriations. More important, it would stop unrelated pork barrel projects from being tacked on to legitimate spending bills.
A second salutary rule of the Colorado legislature requires that conference committees meeting to resolve different House and Senate versions of a bill cannot go beyond the scope of the differences between those bills without receiving the permission of their parent bodies.
In the legislature, if the Senate wants $1 million for a program and the House wants $1.4 million, they may compromise at $1.2 million. In Congress, a Senate bill for $1 billion and a House bill for $2 billion may be 'compromised' at $5 billion - with a host of unrelated appropriations tacked on. Those conference committees meet in secret, and final action on the bills in their respective chambers is cursory at best. It may be weeks before the details of such midnight appropriations deals emerge to public view.
Finally, we again endorse HR 4890, the Legislative Line Item Veto Act. The measure wouldn't give the president a true line item veto such as that enjoyed by Colorado's governor, because such a law has been ruled unconstitutional by the U.S. Supreme Court. But as Rep. Mark Udall, D-Colo., argues, the measure 'will give the president the power to force votes on wasteful spending, while preserving Congress' power of the purse.'
The two procedural reforms Congress should borrow from Colorado, coupled with the revised line item veto, would focus the spotlight of public attention on waste and inefficiency in the federal government.
These three steps won't return the nation to solvency overnight. But they would constitute an impressive beginning toward that vital goal.
The boy hung up and only hours later did he call again. Police finally responded only to find that the mother had died of heart problems that might have been survivable had medics responded to the first call.
Last year, a Michigan woman called 911 to say she had been shot in the head. The operator asked the caller if she was a mental patient and insisted that had she really been shot she wouldn't be able to call. The woman, now a paraplegic, got help only after calling relatives in Minnesota who contacted Detroit police.
Both calls were treated as pranks when precious minutes could have made a difference. It's a boy-who-cried-wolf syndrome - 911 operators get too many crank calls and must struggle to identify the true emergencies.
All states, including Colorado, have experienced problems with a system that fields millions of calls a year. In Colorado in 2004, an Elbert County man called to say he had been attacked by pit bulls, was trapped in a barn and feared that his wife outside the barn was in danger. Due to staff shortages, an inexperienced jail attendant helping answer 911 calls put the man on hold. More than an hour passed and the woman died in the dog attack.
Most of the Colorado problems have to do with the confusion wrought by nuisance calls and hang-up calls, not staff shortages or poor training. In some counties, more than 50 percent of 911 calls aren't legitimate. The problems have grown with the increased use of cellphones, some of which have an automatic dialing feature that will call 911 if a specific key is depressed, often a 9 or a 1. Jefferson County 911 supervisor Cindy Cline recommends that people use their key lock; otherwise, if a phone is bumped or jostled it can call an emergency operator without the user's knowledge. Cline said 911 operators have received calls from babies playing with phones and people in restaurants who accidentally banged the phone.
Since a 911 call is free on a cellphone, Cline said people also abuse the system, calling to order a tow truck, get transferred to other numbers, and all manner of favors.
Chris Olson, president of the Arapahoe County 911 Authority Board and director of the county's safety services, said cellphones now make up more than half the calls to 911. Hangups are frustrating because if an operator is unable to contact the caller, the county's policy is to dispatch police. While Olson believes most calls in his county are legitimate, most hangup calls are not.
Identifying possible prank calls is especially difficult.
The Detroit incident prompted several queries from concerned citizens seeking reassurance from the Colorado Bureau of Investigation. 'If properly trained, operators will ask certain questions to sort out the prank calls,' said CBI's Lance Clem.
A year ago in Boulder, a 911 call came in that law enforcement figured was a prank. They responded anyway to find a 14-year-old girl inside her house with her dead father. The call was all too real. When in doubt, 911 operators should always err on the side of caution.
As for pranksters and nuisance callers, it's essential that you leave the 911 system to those who need it.

</file>

<file= AmE06_B14>

If U.S. politicians think they can impose trade barriers without consequences for American economic interests, they should take a look at China these days. Beijing is reacting to America's talk of tariffs and limits on foreign investment by imposing new restrictions on foreign investment in that country.
Earlier this month, the Carlyle private equity fund agreed to buy half, rather than 85%, of a state-owned construction firm after Beijing bureaucrats intervened. A French firm's bid for China's dominant cookware manufacturer is under competition review. Foreign investment in the brokerage industry has been recently shuttered. And so on.
The most egregious example may be the continuing saga of Guangdong Development Bank, a bankrupt lender in which Citigroup and Societe Generale were competing to buy a majority stake. After bidding, however, they were told they'd have to settle for only 20% of the equity. The State Council in Beijing is still figuring out how to handle the bids. This is the equivalent of President Bush's Cabinet blocking a bank merger in Atlanta -- or perhaps Members of Congress objecting to a takeover of a relatively small U.S. oil company by a Chinese company. Never mind that more foreign cash and know-how are exactly what China needs if it wants to clean up its lumbering, corrupt banking industry.
Lest you think we're exaggerating the anticompetitive mood, consider China's new "Rules on the Merger with and Acquisition of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors," enacted by six Chinese regulatory agencies last month. The rules provide the Communist Party with a mechanism to regulate foreign mergers and acquisitions, impose new guidelines on offshore financing of Chinese companies, and give the Ministry of Commerce the authority to squash deals it doesn't like, among other things.
Beijing's regulators aren't exactly exemplars of transparency, so it's hard to know if this is the start of a broader anti-foreign backlash, or simply an effort to duplicate regulatory language used elsewhere. To date, no major deals have been blocked under the new rules. But there's still plenty of room for worry.
Take Article 40, which gives the Ministry of Commerce room to halt foreign acquisitions of Chinese companies in "core industries," without defining, exactly, what those industries are. Some are easy to guess: Media, for one, is unlikely to be opened up anytime soon given that the Party's control rests on its stranglehold on information. But what about other state-dominated sectors -- such as steel, automobiles, retail, or China's horribly backward mobile phone industry?
Article 40 also gives Beijing the right to block acquisitions of Chinese domestic firms with a "well-known" trademark or a "traditional" Chinese brand. That's odd, given that China doesn't possess any well-known international brands -- or register many of its nascent brands with foreign patent offices. Perhaps this is simply Commerce's way of planning for the future.
We're told that the Ministry of Commerce may very well allow the French-Sino cookware merger when it hears the case in the coming weeks. But the broader reversion to economic nationalism remains a worry -- which is why American politicians shouldn't give Beijing politicians any more protectionist episodes to emulate.
'For decades, U.S. auto companies did not intervene in steel trade cases. We do so now because further relief is unjustified -- and it is undermining American manufacturing competitiveness."
For the sake of the American economy, we hope that statement gets someone's attention at the International Trade Commission (ITC) today. It's from the six largest automobile manufacturers in the U.S. -- General Motors, Toyota, DaimlerChrysler, Ford, Honda and Nissan.
On the table before the ITC today is whether the anti-dumping duties imposed in 1993 on "corrosion-resistant steel" should be lifted. This steel is crucial to making cars. Pushing back against the automakers, steelmakers are expected to argue, as they did 13 years ago, that they need the duties to repel unfair foreign competition and avoid harm.
Well, times change, and it's time to lift these duties on steel. This isn't 1993.
It's hard to overstate the importance of access to corrosion-resistant steel for American manufacturing. Auto makers need it for exterior body panels, doors, hoods, roofs and fenders -- in other words, to produce a car. It is used in making auto parts, construction materials, appliances and consumer hardware. Metal fabricators, many of them small family-owned operations scattered across the American heartland, depend on it. From corporate America to Mom and Pop operations, the U.S. needs this steel to stay in business. The automakers will testify on the side of the foreign companies accused of dumping, but in fact they're testifying for the U.S. economy.
Under U.S. trade law, the duties can't be lifted unless it can be shown that the petitioning industry -- steel -- is no longer exposed to harm from competition. The protectionists at the U.S. Commerce Department haven't helped matters by releasing a report claiming that without the duties "dumping" would resume. But as the nation's steel users are arguing, that report drew its conclusions from market circumstances in 1993. There's little doubt that the dynamics of the global steel market are entirely different than they were 13 years ago.
For starters, since 1993 the U.S. government has absorbed two-thirds of Big Steel's pension "legacy" costs ($9 billion), which was one of the biggest barriers to the industry's consolidation. Data showing a 70% increase in prices for corrosion-resistant steel in 2004-2006, compared with the 2000-2003 period, suggest that the reorganized U.S. industry has strong pricing power. Big Steel is also turning in impressive profitability numbers, easily outstripping the 5.5% profit-on-sales average reported by the Census Bureau for durable-goods manufacturers as a whole in the first half of 2006.
Pricing power and profitability are a direct consequence of the supply restraints caused by anti-dumping duties. Those duties, which can range from 2% to 40%, are also assigned retroactively; so foreign sellers of steel to the U.S. -- which have to collect the duty as part of their price -- never know what their final financial exposure will be. This discourages many foreign companies from even thinking about shipping steel to the U.S. And with global demand for steel strong, why bother? Meanwhile, U.S. users of steel find reliable supplies at globally competitive prices hard to come by. U.S. mills have been known to refuse quotes and limit order size.
Big Steel, which employs 130,000, might want to consider the consequences of squeezing its own customers. U.S. car makers and the auto-parts industry support 2.4 million jobs, and the auto sector buys about half of all U.S. shipments of corrosion-resistant steel. If these businesses move off-shore, U.S. steel will have to compete without the protection of the ITC.
The auto industry says it already buys "the overwhelming majority of [its] steel from U.S. steel mills and will continue to do so irrespective of the outcome of this dispute." But that may not be the case if companies that need steel move their manufacturing businesses off-shore. As Josephine Cooper, Toyota group vice president says, "There is no longer an economic basis for keeping these duties. The steel industry benefits from unnecessary protection while the duties hurt a much wider sector of the U.S. economy."
Europe was expected to try a new approach to monopoly cases when Neelie Kroes took over as EU antitrust chief two years ago. Finding creative ways for Brussels to assail Microsoft isn't what most people had in mind.
The latest dust-up concerns the software giant's newest incarnation of the Windows operating system, dubbed Vista. Microsoft is now scrambling to decide whether it should ship the program to Europe along with the rest of the world later this year, or delay to avoid upsetting the European Commission. After the EU fined Microsoft half a billion euros in 2004 for alleged antitrust violations with Windows, and another 280.5 million euros ($356.8 million) earlier this year for failing to comply with its vague and ever-changing orders, Ms. Kroes has warned Microsoft not to cross the line with Vista.
The problem is figuring out what that line is. Ms. Kroes earlier this year named five areas of concern with Vista, ranging from built-in security software to the way PDFs are handled. The company proposed changes to address her worries, but Ms. Kroes has declined to say whether they would suffice. Her spokesman says only that "the Commission has been giving guidance to Microsoft for over a year. But ultimately it is for Microsoft to decide how they package and sell Vista."
In other words, the Commission is all but certain to nail Microsoft once Vista comes out, based on some unknowable notion of what is and isn't permissible. Take Adobe, whose PDF format for electronic documents is the industry standard. Adobe has asked the EU to examine Microsoft's inclusion in Vista of new Microsoft programs that perform functions similar to Adobe's, at no cost to consumers. Adobe also objects to Microsoft's free inclusion of a command to save files in non-Adobe programs, such as Word, as PDFs; currently, users must buy Adobe software to create PDFs, although the software for reading them is free. Microsoft has offered to make the PDF-creating plug-in for Vista available as a separate, but still free, download. But Adobe wants the Commission to require Microsoft to charge for the download -- even though Adobe wouldn't get any of the proceeds.
Of course, if Adobe were to make such a request of Microsoft privately, this would be considered collusion. And consumers will pay more and have less choice if Adobe gets its way. From a regulatory standpoint, in other words, Adobe is asking the EU to protect its total monopoly in the electronic-document market by acting against Microsoft's near monopoly in the operating-system market.
Ms. Kroes claims she's simply trying to ensure a level playing field and protect incentives for innovation. But her actions actually stifle creativity: In essence, she is telling Microsoft to proceed with the utmost caution when trying to improve its products, lest it incur her wrath. This precautionary principle doesn't encourage innovation in other fields, and the result won't be any different in software. With her Microsoft obsession, Ms. Kroes is demonstrating that once a company finds itself in the EU's crosshairs, Brussels will go to any length to pursue it.
Ms. Kroes made headlines a year ago by indicating, in a speech in New York, that she favored an American-style antitrust philosophy: namely, judging whether a company's practices help or harm consumers, rather than their competitors. She was back in Manhattan this month, insisting that she still adheres to the consumer-harm standard. But her actions make it hard to believe she means it.
The left-leaning faction that dominates American higher education doesn't take kindly to strangers -- particularly those who challenge the prevailing academic orthodoxies. Just ask Harvard's Larry Summers.
Or consider the escalating governance controversy at Dartmouth College. A few reformers have achieved a bit of influence, and now the New Hampshire school's insular establishment is doing everything it can to run them out of Hanover.
Since 1891, Dartmouth has been among the handful of colleges and universities that allows alumni to elect leaders directly. At present, eight of the 18 members of the governing Board of Trustees are chosen by the popular vote of some 66,500 graduates, from a slate nominated by a small, mostly unelected committee. (The remaining seats, reserved for major donors, are filled by appointment.)
In practice, the Trustees have been largely ornamental overseers, rubber-stamping the management decisions of the "progressive" college administration and faculty. The passivity of the Trustees owes, in part, to the fact that many official alumni representatives operate as a de facto wing of the establishment, pushing candidates who won't make trouble.
In 2004 and 2005, however, Dartmouth alumni were finally offered genuine choices. Over three successive Trustee contests, independent candidates bypassed the official channels and got onto the ballot by collecting alumni signatures.

</file>

<file= AmE06_B15>

According to the Atlanta Regional Commission and the Transportation Research Board, the 20-county metro Atlanta population will reach 7 million by 2030, with Gwinnett County adding 400,000 people, Fulton County adding 330,000 and Henry County adding 250,000. Fulton County will add the most jobs (16,000), for a 2030 total of almost 1.14 million.

Translation: Because road construction cannot keep pace with this level of growth, the traffic congestion the region is experiencing will almost certainly worsen.

Georgia needs to implement every form of alternative transportation available, and we need to do it right now. Commuter rail, including the Atlanta-Lovejoy line and the Atlanta-Athens line (also dubbed the "Brain Train"), the Peachtree Streetcar, the Beltline, bus rapid transit and others must all be implemented in a cohesive way.

Otherwise, 20 years from now, we are not going to like the places we live, work and play. Congestion has grown particularly worse outside of I-285 and along Ga. 316. Morning and afternoon peaks are becoming longer in duration and greater in volume.

Plans for alternative transportation, including commuter rail, have been on the Georgia Department of Transportation's long-range plan for nearly two decades. If the metro Atlanta population does nearly double by 2030, as the ARC has forecasted, our quality of life and our economic vitality will suffer.

Current average daily commute times for metro Atlantans now clock in at more than 31 minutes each way. With Henry County, Gwinnett County and Fulton County leading the way in population and job growth, we might reasonably expect average commute times to double sooner than our population does.

How then does Georgia expect to compete for industry and jobs against cities such as Miami, Charlotte, Nashville, Dallas, Denver, and Orlando, whose transportation alternatives are more than a decade ahead of Georgia's? Commuter rail just started operating in Nashville.

The Miami region's commuter rail initiative (operated on CSX right of way) is successful. Denver, Dallas and Portland have light rail in operation, while Charlotte is in the advanced stages of comprehensive regional alternative transportation planning.

Unless we tap every drop of every transit alternative to its fullest, the extraordinary economic growth the state has enjoyed will grind to a halt. Commuter rail, given existing rights of way, economies of scale and increasing willingness of railroad operators to work with commuter rail in the interest of good public policy, is an opportunity we cannot ignore to remove thousands of automobiles from our gridlocked roads.

What can we do?

First, the city of Atlanta and the state of Georgia can get together to settle ownership of the Atlanta multimodal terminal so that demolition can begin and we can build the hub of the wheel that holds all of the spokes together. GDOT has earmarked $2 million for the demolition of the building on the site. With multiple needs for this facility, including a new permanent home for the Greyhound bus station, the Peachtree Streetcar terminus, Lovejoy line terminus and Brain Train terminus, responsible parties need to move forward.

Second, the Georgia DOT board and state Legislature can move forward on the Atlanta- Lovejoy commuter rail service.

Third, the Georgia DOT and state Legislature can begin supporting development of the second spoke to Athens (the Brain Train). 

Fourth, the heads of Atlanta's regional transit and development organizations must develop a cohesive, educated, actionable plan and leadership structure to effectively and equitably address our transportation needs on a regional and statewide basis. I am encouraged with efforts under way in this regard.

Fifth, the same regional development organizations, chambers of commerce, transit agencies and members of the state Legislature can learn about the benefits of every viable transportation alternative, including commuter rail, and actively support those providing sensible, cost-effective solutions.

Sixth, get educated. When a round trip in your private automobile actually costs you more than 50 cents per mile (a very conservative number), does it really matter whether the cost of a rail ticket between Atlanta and Athens is $5, $6 or $7? That same trip costs you around $35 one-way in your car.

We need the best efforts of state transportation and legislative leaders to protect the quality of life and economic strength of our region. Our state as a whole depends upon a healthy Atlanta region.

We need much more than there is room to list here, but we have waited almost 20 years to deal with traffic congestion in the region. Do we really have to wait until the population doubles again and we spend twice as much time in our cars as we do now before we act?

Wayne Shackelford is senior vice president of Gresham, Smith & Partners architecture and engineering firm, chairman of the Gwinnett Chamber of Commerce and a former commissioner of the Georgia Department of Transportation.;

In a world that bulldozes its history and has an attention span that likely could be measured in milliseconds, a most remarkable reminder that the pleasures of time and place are to be savored has just come to life in an ambitious book called "The Paper Boy."

Its author is Smyrna native and City Councilman Pete Wood, who with Lillie, his wife of 46 years, has undertaken a project so ambitious and unique that it's a wonder anybody ever had the time or discipline to take it on. 

The book's appeal is, in the larger sense, limited to families whose roots are in a city where, as a young boy, he delivered The Atlanta Constitution, starting during World War II.

What Wood's done in "The Paper Boy" is mentally walk the streets he traveled as a boy and talk about the lives of the people who occupied the houses he passed. As he talks, reflecting first on a boy's memories and then on the lives and the directions he came to know over the next six decades, we are introduced to the mosaic of lives and relationships that gives meaning to time and place.

The result is a book that is of historical and genealogical interest first. But in the detail, and in the interconnection of lives, Wood presents a different and fuller picture of a Georgia that was one that I suspect Atlantans and even Southerners of this generation will never know.

It is so rare in metro Atlanta, or increasingly anywhere in the South, that people stay put in one place long enough to know their neighbors well, much less to know the lives of their parents and children, that it simply boggles the mind to imagine that somebody could do this for a whole town.

Wood focuses primarily on families who lived in Smyrna between 1938, his earliest memory of people and place, and 1951, when he graduated from high school. The 1940 census put its population at 1,440, about the current size of the farming communities of Rochelle, Broxton or Tennile, and half the size of the city of Adairsville. Smyrna's 2005 population was 45,755.

Researchers at the Atlanta Regional Commission have gathered data from census reports that provide a glimpse of our mobility. Among a 2000 population of 38,266 in Smyrna, 24,850 had lived in a different house five years earlier --- 13,960 in a different county in Georgia and 8,565 in a different state. It's the same throughout metro Atlanta.

As the region changes, the center moves and so does our orientation, so that we come to think of place as teams and brands. Mobility engenders rootlessness, family lives as snapshots with no beginning or end.

That is a real change for the South, a region where families were attached to land and neighbors were each other's family historians because their lives and families were woven together over generations. It was nothing, therefore, to talk of the living and the dead as part of the same story, and to fix the events in their lives to houses, seasons, work or to the landscape, creeks, rivers or other distinguishing landmarks.

That world is mostly gone everywhere. Atlanta, and the small communities around it, were once such a place. Now, however, most of the reference-point places, like the one-room schoolhouses in rural Georgia that have gone back to nature, are given over to change, to skyscrapers and condos and Wal-Marts. The paperboys, too, see homes but not people --- and when they see people, they make no connections to families or place.

Every community and every passing generation should have the opportunity to see itself, as Wood saw and writes about, one tiny sliver of metro Atlanta. He saw it as a paperboy learning people and the skills necessary to succeed in life.

Over the decades, as a banker, as a founding trustee of the hospital authority that built Cobb General and as a founding trustee of what is now WellStar Health Systems, and as a city councilman and member of First Baptist Church of Smyrna for more than 70 years, he saw the same families through joys and hardships, through wars and good times. From those vantage points, paperboy to community leader, he saw the richness and the detail of a people and place that one day will exist as high-rises and mini-mansions, with the new designed to look old.

The old place has gone, but Wood has kept their stories.

The first house on the north side of Bank Street? Oh, that was occupied by Mr. and Mrs. Talmadge Pharr Westbrook. Let me tell you where they came from, what happened in their lives and what happened to their children. The paperboy knows.; 

The lukewarm endorsement of Lt. Gov. Mark Taylor by The Atlanta Journal-Constitution's

editorial board prompted some readers to ask why the board bothered to endorse anyone in the race for Georgia's governor.

Some readers took it even further, questioning whether people even need or want the board's opinion.

While far from perfect, editorial endorsements offer readers another source of information leading up to decision day. That's probably less necessary in high-profile races such as the contest between Taylor and Gov. Sonny Perdue, where voters have ample information. But it's more difficult for voters to figure out the intricacies of proposed constitutional amendments or to decide on races that get little public attention and draw candidates with no track record.

The more obscure the race, in other words, the more important it is for editorial boards to interview candidates, examine their records and offer a convincing argument on behalf of a particular candidate. 

Only a few of the more than 100 candidates invited to meet with the editorial board this fall declined the invitation --- a signal that the candidates themselves see endorsements as having value. For the general election, the board offered endorsements in all statewide races, as well as contests for the U.S. House of Representatives and state House and Senate and county commission seats in the metro area. It also endorsed in school board races that the editorial board considered particularly important.

Endorsement interviews are "an opportunity to get a sense of how [candidates] approach issues, how they make decisions and, to some extent, to plumb the depths of their knowledge about an issue and try to gauge whether they will be successful," explained associate editorial page editor Jim Wooten.

If people saw the process, they'd have confidence in its value, he said.

"The important thing about the way we approach endorsements that's contrary to that of special-interest groups, especially on the local level, is that we don't have a litmus test. We're not trying to get candidates committed to a course of action that is consistent with our editorial positions. We're just trying to elevate the quality of the public bodies that are making decisions about our lives."

In Wooten's opinion, AJC endorsements were more useful when there were competing editorial voices, offered by The Atlanta Journal and The Atlanta Constitution before the boards merged in 2001.

"If you knew the Journal was conservative, as it was, and that we were recommending this candidate, we were saying that based on our values, our philosophy and our examination of the record, this is the candidate most likely to take the state and nation in the direction our philosophy believes is best," said Wooten, who was the Journal's editorial page editor. ;

</file>

<file= AmE06_B16>

Most politicians are fortunate if they're remembered for one good thing. In the case of Gov. George Pataki, that will almost surely be his work for the environment. Mr. Pataki has earned his badge as an environmental governor by protecting wilderness, adding riverside parks, creating coalitions for cleaner air and alternative fuels and, most recently, announcing the fulfillment of his pledge to add one million acres of land to the public estate. 

That is no small legacy. But beyond the environment, Mr. Pataki's dozen years in office have produced mixed results. In many critical areas, his best efforts bump up against disappointing failures. What follows is an attempt to catalog the Pataki record at the end of his three terms. It is an early assessment, one that is bound to change over time. 

Reform 

There is a reason so many candidates ran for office this year promising reform in Albany: under Mr. Pataki, reform was a talking point, not a doing point. He had co-conspirators in the State Legislature. But failure began at the top. When Mr. Pataki assumed command in January 1995, he promised a full-throated revolution in state government. Instead, Albany suffered little more than a hiccup. 

The year 2002 provided a disheartening example. Every decade, New York's governor has one golden opportunity to effect change in a major way. That is when he is called upon to give his approval to redistricting and decide whether state legislators should be forced to compete for their jobs or be allowed to create weirdly shaped districts whose only purpose is to protect incumbents. Mr. Pataki could have demanded a fairer system. Instead, he signed another incumbent-protection plan, guaranteeing 10 more years of governmental dysfunction. 

Mr. Pataki's preference for confining his reform impulses to the realm of oratory was perhaps most pronounced when it came to campaign finance reform. Every year, he demanded restrictions on the power of big-money special interests to buy favors at election time; every year, the effort fizzled. By 2005, public and media pressure had inspired a few, first step reforms. But even then, Mr. Pataki wound up lagging behind the outcry, not leading it. 

It's not easy to remember, but this was a governor who came into office promising a new day and an open door. He left a system so hard to penetrate that his quarters in the State Capitol were known as Fort Pataki. 

Health Care 

Here the record is better. Mr. Pataki expanded Child Health Plus and created Family Health Plus, important entitlement programs offering care for many who could not otherwise afford it. He also pushed for the deregulation of hospitals. 

While the governor did not have the power to reduce the size of an unwieldy health care system himself, he and others in Albany came up with a good end run, creating a commission whose recommendations would automatically become law unless the Legislature actively rejected the whole package. The result was a plan to close, merge and downsize hospitals and nursing homes. 

Crime 

Mr. Pataki puts crime-fighting at the top of his own bragging list. He pushed over 100 bills that toughened laws and lengthened prison sentences. New Yorkers will be arguing for years about whether these laws actually led to lower crime rates. New York's crime rate has dropped and New York City is now ranked as the safest big city in the country. At a minimum, Mr. Pataki will have to share the credit with others -- mainly New York City's mayors and police. 

Budget 

Mr. Pataki came into office vowing to cut taxes, and on this he delivered. But as we have seen in Washington, it is fairly easy to persuade legislative bodies to cut taxes as long as they are not forced to restrain spending, too. Mr. Pataki may have wished for such restraint but he had neither the skill nor political muscle to achieve it. New York State's budget has almost doubled on his watch, from about $62 billion in 1995 to over $114 billion this year. Long-term debt has almost doubled as well, soaring to $50 billion, and budget gaps of $3 billion to $4 billion a year could confront the next governor. 

Mr. Pataki has also allowed the state to commit a fiscal conservative's top mortal sin: borrowing to pay for continuing operating costs. These are the kinds of numbers that opponents will have a field day with if he moves into the presidential scrum. 

Consolidating Power 

Much of Mr. Pataki's tenure was spent in budget fights with state legislators of both parties who, despite partisan differences, were united in a common desire to lavish money on their own favorite causes. In the end, a frustrated Mr. Pataki used a court ruling to seize control over the budget -- and thus most of the state's business -- from the Legislature. Mr. Pataki and his staff have so whittled away the Legislature's budgetary powers that even those who approve of a strong governor have begun to recognize a case of overkill. 

Lower Manhattan 

The prime example of the strengths and weaknesses of Mr. Pataki's executive style is the rebuilding of Lower Manhattan after Sept. 11. 

The governor chose excellent leaders for the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation. But he did not feel compelled to follow their advice. When the decision came down to one of two first-rate master plans being considered for ground zero and the area around it, Mr. Pataki demanded Daniel Libeskind's and won the day. 

A second veto was less admirable. He melted in the face of criticism from a few vocal members of the victims' families and their supporters and killed off plans for an International Freedom Center, bowing to concerns that the center's mandate to encourage discussion might lead to debate about controversial ideas. Most troubling of all was the way Mr. Pataki's focus on the city's emotional rebuilding seemed to ebb and flow. He was not always there when he was needed. As criticism mounted, he would eventually appear and often do the right thing. But the lag times hurt. 

Towards the end, Mr. Pataki pushed for tangible evidence that he had made his mark on ground zero. On Dec. 19, 12 days before leaving office, he celebrated the first column of the Freedom Tower with an emotional declaration that the steel ''rises from the ashes of September 11.'' If there was a sigh of relief in the Pataki household that something was finally happening at the World Trade Center site, there must also have been a sigh outside as well. 

At moments when leadership was needed, this was a governor whose performance was always adequate. It is hardly the kind of summation that makes for a political legend, but New Yorkers are well aware that it is possible to do worse. ; 

When President Bush insisted that the Iraq Study Group would not provide cover for the White House to chart a ''graceful exit'' of American troops, he was missing the whole point. The much-anticipated report from the bipartisan panel is precisely about political cover. That is a good thing, if only Mr. Bush has the sense to embrace it. 

Iraq is so far gone that nobody expected the panel to come up with a breakthrough solution. As the co-chairmen -- former Secretary of State James Baker and former Representative Lee Hamilton -- began their letter accompanying yesterday's report, ''there is no magic formula to solve the problems of Iraq.'' And the study was never going to change the basic facts: there is no victory to be had in Iraq, and however American troops withdraw, they will leave behind a deadly mess. 

Its real mission was to avert the worst scenario, in which a stubborn George W. Bush spends the next two years blindly insisting he will accept nothing short of victory, while Iraq keeps spiraling out of control and the Iraqis get no closer to being able to contain the chaos after the Americans leave. 

That is a recipe for years more of savagery, a spillover of terrorism and instability across the Middle East, more sacrifice of American soldiers and more cynicism and division among the American people. Avoiding it is not the same as winning the war, but it is a way to cut one's losses. 

If Mr. Bush has the capacity to seriously reassess his Iraq strategy, he will need exactly the kind of political cover that the Baker-Hamilton group was meant to provide. The central point of the group's 79 unanimous recommendations is that Washington should focus far more aggressively on training Iraqi forces and prepare for a withdrawal of American troops. The report says all combat brigades could be out by early 2008, but that would still leave tens of thousands of soldiers behind to hold the Iraqi Army together. 

That is to be combined with a lot more pressure on the Iraqis to make political compromises and take responsibility for their own security (the report lays out clear milestones and says the United States should reduce its military and economic support if the Iraqis resist) and more aggressive regional diplomacy, including talks with Iran and Syria that Mr. Bush has ruled out. 

Make no mistake, the report is a stunning indictment of Mr. Bush's failure -- in Iraq and no less in Washington. But its recommendations are still couched in language vague enough to allow the president to pretend it is the ''new way forward'' his aides are now talking up, rather than a timetable for withdrawal, which is on Mr. Bush's no-go list. Predictably, the first reaction of Tony Snow, the White House spokesman, was to insist that ''there is nothing in here about pulling back militarily.'' 

The world has watched as Mr. Bush painted himself into a corner and then insisted it was a strategic decision. Even the Iraqis are trying to provide cover to for him to come tiptoeing back to the real world. Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki's call for a regional conference on Iraq would allow the administration to get past its refusal to talk to Tehran and Damascus, by saying that ban was never meant to include Iraqi initiatives. 

The Iraq report is a deeply diplomatic document, stuffed with ''coulds'' and ''mights.'' It is, all in all, exactly the kind of shades-of-gray thinking that Mr. Bush despises, and exactly what he needs to get the country out of the hole he has dug.; 

More than 50 years after the Supreme Court decided Brown v. Board of Education, the nation still has not abolished de facto segregation in public schools. But thanks to good will and enormous effort, some communities have made progress. Today the Supreme Court hears arguments in a pair of cases that could undo much of that work. 

Conservative activists are seeking to halt the completely voluntary, and laudable, efforts by Seattle and Louisville, Ky., to promote racially integrated education. Both cities have school assignment plans known as managed or open choice. Children are assigned to schools based on a variety of factors, one of which is the applicant's race. 

The plan that Jefferson County adopted for Louisville has a goal of having black enrollment in every school be no less than 15 percent and no more than 50 percent. Seattle assigns students to its 10 high schools based on a number of factors, including an ''integration tiebreaker.'' This tiebreaker, which is applied to students of all races, requires that an applicant's race be taken into account when a school departs by more than 15 percent from the district's overall racial breakdown. 

Parents in both districts sued, alleging that the consideration of race is unconstitutional. In each case, the court of appeals upheld the assignment plans. In the Seattle case, Judge Alex Kozinski, a Reagan appointee who is highly respected by legal conservatives, wrote that because the district's plan does not advantage or disadvantage any particular racial group -- its pro-integration formula applies equally to all -- it ''carries none of the baggage the Supreme Court has found objectionable'' in other cases involving race-based actions.;

</file>

<file= AmE06_B17>

CRIME waves, like hurricanes, periodically slam American cities. Houston suffered a sharp rise in murders during the first half of this year; Washington, D.C., was assaulted by brazen influence- selling. Now Brownsville and other cities along the Mexican border are being pummeled by corruption. Border guards, city agencies, even judges have been caught taking bribes. The crime wave shows that American officials are no more immune from the cancer of corruption than any others.
According to the FBI, border bribery cases began rising noticeably several years ago. In Brownsville alone, police snared a municipal court clerk fixing traffic tickets in the middle of a busy police station, a code inspector who let used car lots operate without building inspections and a county commissioner who accepted $10,000 in kickbacks in exchange for a jail-building contract. Texas isn't alone in seeing more corruption: two border guards were convicted in California for freeing thousands of illegal immigrants in exchange for cash.
Of all nonfatal crimes, corruption is particularly troubling. It can undermine whole societies, including our own, if those in power fail to recognize and then crush the real source. That's why it's crucial that law enforcement, government officials and the public grasp the role of regional and political events in its spread. In the border area, several experts say, much corruption is associated with Mexican drug cartels and the tightening of border security.
The framework for borderland corruption has existed for centuries. Distant from capital cities and serving as bridges between different cultures, borderlands everywhere often develop less lawful, more unregulated ways of doing business. And in Mexico, until recently led by autocratic governments, citizens historically had to "buy" access to public services by slipping cash to officials.
These traditions still linger in cities such as Brownsville, said border historian Anthony Knopp. Yet, Knopp said, "That certainly doesn't account for the spike in corruption.''
How could it, after all: Though Brownsville's officials - and its citizens - might seem more corrupt, Mexico's proximity hasn't changed. What has changed measurably is the clout of Mexican drug cartels. "I think a sheriff here on the border has two choices when he gets elected or tries to run for office,'' Knopp asserted. "He either is likely to take some money, or get shot, or look the other way from the people who are connected with if not part of the major cartels.''
With enormous budgets and their own militias, the cartels have a stranglehold on Mexico. Their struggles for ascendancy and cash are terrorizing several Mexican cities, posing an almost insurmountable challenge for new President Felipe Calderon.
Ordinary Mexicans bear some responsibility. For too long, they saw drug trafficking as a U.S. problem, fed by American vices. They didn't see, until too late, how tolerating or accepting traffickers' bribes spawned the devastating violence now bleeding their cities.
Organized crime also has fed on recent immigration policies. In the past five years, a surge in border personnel has slowed illegal crossings. But it's also prodded human traffickers to pay higher bribes, said David Shirk of San Diego's Transborder Institute. The many new guards also may not be as well-trained or supervised as those before them, which can translate to ethical weakness.
The threat all these transborder criminals pose to American cities is frightening, indeed.
Aggressively strengthening public institutions by demanding transparency and accountability on both sides of the border is one weapon. So is the federal task force formed when Brownsville first started seeing corruption increase.
Maybe most powerful of all, though, is the understanding of how corruption travels. It piggybacks onto weak institutions and feeds on specific economic and political conditions. It spreads like a plague in communities where wrongdoing visibly goes unpunished. From Mexico to Houston to Washington, no culture is immune from its own weaknesses and temptations.
THE Houston Police Department, like most other law enforcement organizations, operates on a military-style command structure rather than by consensus of its rank and file.
Just as an Army general does not require the consent of the troops in order to command them, Houston Police Chief Harold Hurtt's job does not depend on whether his officers or their representatives approve of him or his policies. That judgment must come from the citizens of Houston, Mayor Bill White and City Council.
Leaders of the Houston Police Officers' Union are touting an unscientific survey reflecting the opinions of about half the 4,700- officer force. The opinions voiced by the self-selected respondents are uniformly critical of Hurtt and his command staff and laced with insulting comments such as "idiot" and "racist clown." The union alleges that Hurtt has been unresponsive to the complaints of its members, that he is more concerned with officers' appearance and petty infractions than in fighting crime.
Union President Hans Marticiuc has a right to poll his membership for their viewpoints. In a lengthy meeting with the Chronicle editorial board, however, Marticiuc and the union's executive director, Mark Clark, were hardpressed to say what they would do different. Instead, Marticiuc attacked Hurtt's character and competency. He said Hurtt chose some of the HPD's top brass for their ethnicity rather than their policing abilities.
The union leaders' most substantive complaint was that the chief was not giving his officers backup. Unfortunately, Hurtt cannot give patrol officers the backup they need on the street unless the mayor and City Council give him a lot more money to replace the many veteran officers who are retiring. And the department budget cannot grow substantially until the caps on city revenue are removed from the city charter.
With the department suffering a severe staff shortage and a resurgence of violent crime, animosity and insults only worsen the stressful conditions. To his credit, Chief Hurtt has refused to respond in kind, saying only that he is "really disappointed that the character displayed was not more professional. I expected a lot more from them."
As an outsider coming from Phoenix, Hurtt's selection by Mayor Bill White two years ago was an unpleasant surprise for the union, which supported previous Mayor Lee Brown and the police chief he appointed, Clarence Bradford. Upon arrival, Hurtt required patrol officers to wear protective vests and revived a policy banning beards and exposed tattoos, sparking sharp criticism from union members. In airing their complaints, the union leaders seem more aggrieved at having lost their insider privileges with the department's previous leadership than anything Chief Hurtt has done or left undone.
Some of the union's charges against the chief, such as excessive discipline, are not backed up by the facts. During 2003, Bradford's last full year as chief, the department filed 1,681 discipline cases against officers and civilian employees. In 2005, Hurtt's first full year, disciplinary actions totalled only 829. Although the force shrank by 646 officers during that period, the ratio of disciplinary actions to officers dropped sharply under Hurtt.
Union officials contend that the results of their survey represent the entire department's views, even though fewer than half of the officers responded to it. University of Houston political scientist and pollster Richard Murray notes that such scattershot surveys are more likely to generate responses from people who agree with the point of view of the group compiling the questionnaire.
Murray said a better method of measuring police opinion would be to select a random, representative sample of the department and work to get a complete response from each targeted employee. "Then you can use the statistics of sampling probabilities," he said, "and say with a plus or minus 5 percent we're confident this reflects everybody."
Ultimately, Chief Hurtt's tenure in Houston will be judged not on the basis of personalities or polls, but on his performance in protecting the public under difficult circumstances - including the evacuation to Houston of more than 100,000 impoverished and traumatized Hurricane Katrina victims.
Hurtt says the union survey will make him work harder to explain his policies to the public and win the support of his officers. If so, it will have served some positive purpose.
FOR all it did or didn't accomplish, the recent legislative session on property taxes and school funding was bittersweet for Texas teachers, with the emphasis, for most, on the first two syllables.
And if you are in the majority of Texans who believe the state is putting too much emphasis on standardized testing in the classroom, you may end up with a bad aftertaste as well because the new House Bill 1 raises the testing stakes even higher.
HB1 is the new law signed by Gov. Rick Perry last week as he continued to tour the state, proclaiming "victory" in his effort to reduce local property taxes and end a lawsuit against the state over an unconstitutional school funding system.
Most of the attention, so far, has been on how significant or insignificant the school tax cuts will be and on the new business tax and higher cigarette tax that will help pay for them. Those, however, aren't the only controversies that HB1 provokes.
Among other things, the law also provides for an across-the- board teacher pay raise of $2,000 (or $1,500, if you account for a $500 health stipend lawmakers took away from teachers a few years ago) plus competitive, teacher bonuses.
The bonuses, worth as much as $10,000, could be based on several factors, including a willingness to teach underprivileged kids. But inevitably many will be based on the scores a teacher produces on the Texas Assessment of Knowledge and Skills (TAKS) test, enhancing the argument that many educators have to spend too much class time preparing students for standardized exams, at the expense of promoting creativity, problem-solving and other critical skills.
An educator-friend doesn't worry about "teaching to the test" because he teaches above-average students in one of Austin's better funded school districts. But that may change if he is forced to compete for a bonus.
"If they start throwing $1,000 or $3,000 at me, I would follow that in a proverbial heartbeat," he said. "Why? Because we (teachers) are being choked and squeezed in the middle class."
Some grade-schoolers already have to pass TAKS to be promoted, and high school students have to pass it to graduate.
It also helps determine how schools are academically ranked and, under the new law, will help kick some principals out of their jobs if their campuses are ranked academically unacceptable two years in a row.
Some principals may deserve to go, but others may be victimized after doing their best in extremely difficult situations. It is going to take more than the TAKS test or tough language in HB1 to transform some schools in economically distressed neighborhoods with high dropout rates and low-to-zero parental involvement.
That's a problem with standardization. In real life, one size rarely fits all.
Nevertheless, every state now has to have some type of standardized test to measure student achievement under the federal No Child Left Behind Act. There are consequences for too many student failures, consequences obstensibly designed to improve educators' accountability and thereby improve educational opportunities for all children.
President Bush and the Republicans in power in Austin brag about increasing "accountability" and pat themselves on the back when test scores rise.
It is easier, after all, to preach "accountability" for students and teachers than to fork over more tax dollars for the public schools. (The recent session boosted overall education funding by a princely 5 percent or so.)
It is too early to know whether the testing frenzy will have a permanent, positive effect on public education, but many Texans have had enough.
Fifty-six percent of respondents in a recent, bipartisan survey commissioned by the Texas State Teachers Association said there was too much emphasis on state testing, with Republicans, Democrats and independents in almost identical agreement.
Democratic gubernatorial nominee Chris Bell is campaigning against high-stakes testing and believes the $360 million spent on selected teacher bonuses should have been used for a larger, overall pay raise.
He is correct.

</file>

<file= AmE06_B18>

Jay Leno, the zeitgeist diviner of late-night talk, regaled his audience recently with mock footage of a "cameo" from a hot new film. There were Jack and Ennis, the cowboy lovers from Brokeback Mountain, in a fevered clinch, while King Kong sniffed the air around them with evident interest. Though this montage tapped into the nasty equation of gay love and animal behavior, it also faced the unsettling fact that our most cherished icons of masculinity are being queered--at least in the movies.
But just how queer are the greatest ape and those two vaqueros? That depends on what queer is. If the term means homosexual, it has everything to do with Brokeback Mountain and nothing to do with King Kong. There isn't the slightest hint in this remake that the world's most famous alpha is into guys. But director Peter Jackson has changed the relationship between Kong and his human captive in a way that is very queer, indeed. Heterosexual they may be, but this pair is utterly outside the norm.
Both films are sagas of doomed love. In Kong it's the bond between a yearning animal and a helpless woman; in Brokebackit's a secret gay affair set in the mid-century American West. Of these two scenarios the closet drama is certainly more gripping, thanks largely to Annie Proulx's powerful story and Ang Lee's unsparing direction. Brokeback Mountain makes the cruelty of homophobia unmistakable and the consequences of passing for straight painfully clear. And everything you've heard about Heath Ledger's performance as the more locked-up lover is true: His face is a map of deprivation. In the context of their time and place these male lovers are certainly queer, but seen in the present their story seems oddly conventional. That's because it conforms to our current assumptions about homosexuality.
Take the fact that both Jack and Ennis had brutal, distant fathers. It's a devastating critique of patriarchal culture, but it also echoes the fashionable fundamentalist idea that disapproving dads make deviant sons. No wonder the Christian right has been so muted in its objections to this film; some of their websites even praise its loving values, while adding (as a protective afterthought) that the relationship itself is repugnant. Not that Brokeback is a brief for reparative therapy. It soundly rejects the idea that the sexuality of these men is subject to change. It makes their gayness fully comprehensible--you might say Heath legible--and that lays the groundwork for a certain kind of empathy.
Many women (and not a few gay men) will see in Ennis a recognizable type: the man who needs you to break through his armor, though you can't. This shared perception is the key to a gay film's success in the mass marketplace. And as Brokeback's producer has said, women are its target audience. Perhaps it's an aspect of female de-repression, or a sign of the shifting sexual order, but many women enjoy watching gay characters--and not just on Will & Grace. Homo soaps rule the airwaves in Thailand, and in Japan comic books featuring gay romances are bestsellers thanks to girls. One thing about these homo heroes is that no matter how flexible they are, they're really, really gay. All sorts of problems are solved, and anxieties quelled, by making homosexuality innate and essential. Even the ads for Brokeback Mountain affirm this idea of a fixed gay identity--as in "Love is a force of nature."
The love in Kong is impossible in nature. It can exist only in the queerest regions of the pysche, where human and animal selves may merge. But even the subconscious changes, and in order to modernize this beloved but bigoted tale Peter Jackson has had to alter its underlying assumptions about white male power. He can't dislodge the story's racist core, but its sexism proves more malleable. In the original all the captive woman did was scream, but in this remake she bonds with Kong--and that crucial change turns a classic affirmation of the sexual order into a saga of awakening.
The ape, whose life is an endless battle for supremacy, discovers a new feeling through his love for Anne Darrow: delight. And the mighty primate's loyalty unleashes Darrow's own suppressed power. This transference is represented in the film's most moving scenes: the sunset idyll, when she stands by Kong's side, her popping muscles gleaming in the pink light; and the midnight romp through Central Park, when Kong glides along an icy pond on his furry rear with Darrow in his lap. As "he" falls to his famous death, she hesitates for a crucial moment before leaping into the arms of her human fiancé, and in that space between her destiny and her imagination the system that contains her is suspended. Of course, the moment doesn't last: Boys and girls, this is a tragedy!
The suspension of sexual categories, tentative as it may be, makes King Kong more ambitious than Brokeback Mountain, though it's hardly as accomplished a work of art. But the most notable thing is the way both films see the world. It's a brutal, unforgiving place in which love outside the norm struggles to be something more than a self-destructive gesture. That's as true in our time as it was in cowboy country a generation ago or during the Depression, when Kong is set. Explanations for sexuality change, but queerness remains.
Whenever I travel to international gatherings to talk about the war in Iraq, economic development and women's rights, the question I get asked most frequently is: "Where are the women in the United States? Why aren't they rising up?"
I hear it from women in Africa, who have lost funding for their health clinics because of the Bush Administration's ban on even talking about abortion; from Iraqi women, who are suffering the double oppression of occupation and rising fundamentalism; from European women, who wonder how we can tolerate the crumbling of our meager social services; and from Latina women opposed to unresponsive governments that represent a tiny elite.
The question is variously posed with anger, contempt, curiosity or sympathy. But always, there is a sense of disappointment. What happened to the proud suffragettes who chained themselves to the White House fence for the right to vote? What happened to the garment workers, whose struggles for decent working conditions inspired the first International Women's Day in 1910? What about those who emulated Rosa Parks, risking their lives or livelihoods to confront the evils of racism? Given their tradition of activism, why aren't American women today rising up against a government that dragged them into war with lies, that spies on their peaceful activities and diverts money from their children's schools or their mothers' nursing homes to pay for an immoral war?
I mumble excuses. We have no strong opposition parties or militant trade unions. We have a corporate media that keeps women ignorant. We're either too affluent to care or too poor to do anything about it. I insist that we keep trying, with efforts likeCodePink: Women for Peace, the National Organization for Women and other women's groups, like Gold Star Families for Peace. I say that millions have come out to protest against the war but get demoralized when our government refuses to listen. But deep inside, I ask myself the same question: Where are the women? Why aren't they rising up?
I remember when we first started CodePink before invasion of Iraq, and we felt compelled to leave our families, our jobs, our warm homes, and camp out in front of the White House to try to stop the war. "We'll put a call out to women across the country," we said, "and the streets of Washington, DC, will be flooded with angry women saying no to an unjustified war." During the four cold, winter months we spent in front of the White House, hundreds of women came to join us, and more than 10,000 marched with us when we ended the vigil. But we kept wondering, Where were the millions of women who, according to the polls, were strongly opposed to the war? When a grieving Cindy Sheehan called on people all over the country to join in her vigil at Crawford, Texas, last summer, a few thousand people responded, most of them women. But why didn't tens of thousands come? Or 100,000?
Over the years, hundreds of thousands of women--perhaps millions-- have marched in antiwar rallies. Why don't they become part of an ongoing movement? Why do they get demoralized so quickly when their efforts don't bear fruit?
A few months back, I asked a group of international women for advice. Two issues kept cropping up: persistence and solidarity. "It took us decades to overthrow the oppressive apartheid regime," said one woman from South Africa, "and one of the things that kept us going was solidarity from the outside world--people getting arrested at South African embassies abroad, refusing to buy South African products, sending us moral support." The others agreed. "The struggle has to come from within," said a woman who had spent years organizing landless peasants in Brazil, "and you in the US have more freedom to organize than we ever had. But US women need to feel the support of their sisters overseas, just like we have had tremendous international support."
So a few weeks ago, CodePink drafted a Global Women's Call for Peace in Iraq with the idea of asking women around the world to sign on and then march to US embassies on March 8, International Women's Day. We thought that the idea of women worldwide putting pressure on the US government would inspire US women to stand up as well.
We sent our friends overseas a draft of demands--withdrawal of foreign troops, no permanent bases, rebuilding funds going directly to Iraqis instead of US companies and equal rights for women. It immediately "went viral," on the Internet, with women from Mongolia, Mexico, Australia, Albania, the Philippines and Pakistan requesting to be among the initial endorsers. Our goal of getting 100 prominent women to sign quickly become 150, then 200, and before we even officially launched the campaign, more than 3,000 women (and male allies) had signed on to the new website, Women Say No to War.
So please join us in building this global call, sending it to our friends at home and abroad to get at least 100,000 women on board. Please commit to doing a local action on March 8--shut down a recruiting center, sit in at a Congressional office, hold a vigil on a crowded street corner, paint a peace mural. Or join us in Washington, DC, where Iraqi, US and British women--including Cindy Sheehan--who have lost sons in this war will try to meet with US women leaders, from Condoleezza Rice to Hillary Clinton, to push our peace plan.
Let's make March 8 a day when we revive the fighting spirit of International Women's Day and unleash the power of women across generations, races, ethnicities, religions and borders. Let's make it a day to show our anger over the war, our compassion for our sisters in Iraq, our disgust with our leaders and our determination to change course. And let's commit to building, over the long term, a women's peace movement that will make our global sisters--and our grandmothers--proud.
In one example of blatant pro-industry bias, the Administration interfered with MSHA investigations of a coal sludge spill at a mine owned by a Massey Energy subsidiary that dumped 300 million gallons of toxic waste into Kentucky and West Virginia waterways.
Four days before the Harlan County mine tragedy, miners who had survived accidents, families of miners killed in accidents and union members held a rally on Capitol Hill to demand Congressional action on mine safety. United Mine Workers president Cecil Roberts said: "The time for talking about improving safety in the coal mines is over. Congress must act, and act now. America's coal miners and their families cannot wait."

</file>

<file= AmE06_B19>

A three-judge federal court recently tugged a thread that may begin the unraveling of the fabric of murky laws and regulations that traduce the First Amendment by suppressing political speech. Divided 2-1, the court held -- unremarkably, you might think -- that issue advocacy ads can run during an election, when they matter most. This decision will strike zealous advocates of ever-tighter regulation of political speech (campaign finance "reformers") as ominous. Why? Because it partially emancipates millions of Americans who incorporate thousands of groups to advocate their causes, groups such as the ACLU and NRA. 

And Wisconsin Right to Life. It is another organization by which people assemble (see the First Amendment) to speak (see it again) in order to seek redress of grievances (the amendment, one more time). In 2004, the Wisconsin group was distressed because the state's senators, Russ Feingold and Herb Kohl, were helping to block confirmation votes on some of President Bush's judicial nominees. They wanted to run ads urging people to "contact Senators Feingold and Kohl and tell them to oppose the filibuster." 

But Feingold was running for re-election, and the McCain- Feingold "reform" makes it a crime for entities such as the Wisconsin group to use their corporate funds to broadcast an "electioneering communication" within 30 days of a primary or 60 days of a general election. An "electioneering communication" is one that "refers to" a candidate for federal office. 

In 2003, the Supreme Court upheld McCain-Feingold, but the court later said it would consider appeals against the law "as applied." The majority on the three-judge court, preserving the distinction between electioneering and grass-roots lobbying, held that the group's ads were exempt from the McCain-Feingold election-eve blackouts of speech because the ads were not "coordinated" with a candidate's campaign and did not engage in "express advocacy" -- did not use the words "vote for" or "vote against" a candidate. 

The dissenting judge wanted to examine the "intent" of the ads by examining their "context," looking for clues as to whether the sponsor of the ads hoped to not only advocate an issue but to influence an election. Imagine: Judges scouring the political landscape, searching for evidence (people's past opinions or associations; e-mails and other communications) that would empower them to rule that grass-roots lobbying about an issue is really the functional equivalent of electioneering (express advocacy). Such a process would necessarily be so protracted that no challenged ad could be authorized in time for an election. 

The Wisconsin group's case is probably heading for the Supreme Court. There Justice Samuel Alito occupies the chair that Sandra Day O'Connor occupied when she voted with the majority in the 5-4 ruling that upheld McCain-Feingold. 

Still, the reformers' zeal for regulating speech is undiminished. The Federal Election Commission recently fined some "527" groups $630,000. Their offense? Issue advocacy in 2004 that, "taken as a whole," could "only be interpreted by a reasonable person as containing the advocacy of the election or defeat" of a federal candidate. Editorial writers at the New York Times and the Washington Post approved, although the Times thought the fines insufficient, and although the Post, calling the current law "murky," thought the FEC should have enforced the murkiness quicker. 

The Times justifies suppressing 527s on aesthetic grounds -- they are run by "hard-edged activists," and their ads are too negative. The Post also is tellingly silent about the reformers' original corruption rationale for rationing political speech by restricting the political money that finances it. Instead, the Post says 527s wield "significant" influence. 

Bauer wonders why, absent a compelling government interest in combatting corruption, unregulated speech resulting in influence should be a federal offense. When, as surely it will, the Supreme Court considers that question, it can begin undoing the damage it did affirming McCain-Feingold and licensing government to ration political speech. ;

The Year of the Pig begins Feb. 18, the first day of the Chinese New Year. In America, we were well ahead of schedule. During 2006, from national to local government, from Wall Street to Rodeo Drive, hoggishness ran and reigned throughout our nation. This is our Year of the Boar in review. 

Outgoing U.S. House Speaker J. Dennis Hastert (R-Ill.) is one example. The Republican Party had hoarded power for the past 12 years, and in his lame attempt to protect it, Hastert ignored repeated warnings that Florida Rep. Mark Foley engaged in a peculiar practice of e-mailing and sending inappropriate instant messages to teenage pages on Capitol Hill. Also meriting mention is the outgoing chairman of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, Don Young (R-Alaska), for insisting that his sparsely populated state get its share of pork by way of the $223 million he earmarked in a bill for a "bridge to nowhere." Because Alaska's overall allocation of federal funds remains the same, the bridge, which would connect Alaska's Gravina Island -- population 50 -- to the mainland, may yet be built. 

Jack Abramoff, the onetime king of Washington's 14,000 registered lobbyists, was legendary for his ability to work the corridors of power, finessing congressional earmarks and exacting pork-barrel projects. Last month, the former Republican superlobbyist began serving his prison sentence for fraud, tax evasion and conspiracy to bribe public officials. In Washington's pay-to-play world, the buck didn't stop with the lobbyist. Abramoff won't do time alone. Former U.S. Rep. Robert Ney (R-Ohio) pleaded guilty two months ago to accepting bribes from Abramoff. 

Meanwhile, in the private sector, bringing home the bacon took on a greater meaning: The rich got far richer. Goldman Sachs CEO Lloyd Blankfein took home a record $53.4 million in cash, stocks and options as his year-end bonus. Other CEOs collected their big bucks through obscene paychecks. Thomas J. Fitzpatrick, head of SLM Corp. received $39,629,325 in total compensation. James F. Mooney, chairman of RCN Corp., received $9,938,711 in compensation -- a pittance compared with the $136.1 million the company lost. 

George W. Bush spent the bulk of the year staying stubborn, turning pigheadedness into a national tragedy. The president and Vice President Dick Cheney, both old oilmen, seemed incapable of facing the inconvenient truth that, unlike WMDs in Iraq, global warming was real and threatening. Last week, Bush's Interior Department finally proposed listing the polar bear as threatened under the Endangered Species Act. And after doggedly insisting that we should stay the course as we were slowly being sucked down a vortex, the November elections and the release of the Iraq Study Group's report earlier this month convinced the president that something's funky in Baghdad: his military strategy. Bush is currently holding secret sessions in Crawford, Texas, with his national security team, attempting to craft a plan that will get us out of the mess he got us in. 

In Sugar Land, 207 miles down the road from Crawford, Bush's former house enforcer, Tom "The Hammer" DeLay, had to drop his bid for re-election last April for more than his boorish behavior. The former House majority leader sits indicted, facing charges of money laundering. About half an hour northeast of his home stands what used to be Enron Corp. Earlier this month, Enron's chief operating officer Jeffrey Skilling began serving his 24-year sentence for 19 counts of conspiracy, fraud and insider trading. In Skilling's case, his gluttony cost 4,000 Enron employees their jobs, many of them their life savings, while investors lost billions of dollars. 

Closer to home, outgoing Cook County President Bobbie Steele will be collecting a $136,000 pension, after greasing the way for her son, Robert, newly installed in her old county commissioner seat, to take his turn at the public trough. On the La Salle Street side of the building, despite one scandal after the next, Richard M. Daley appears to be hoofing it to an easy re-election bid. The mayor has apparently gotten over his craving for flowers and fences. He now has eyes for cameras. With more than 2,000 crime-fighting and terrorist-spotting cameras in action and plans to put more on CTA buses, the mayor is now making sure that by spring, we'll have 74 photocops -- traffic light cameras -- shooting street intersections. Within 10 years, Big Brother Daley promises there will be a spy camera on every block. 

Naturally, in the world of celebrities, there's pork lite. After a rocky, two-year marriage, Kevin Federline is expecting $300,000 in a spousal support settlement from his estranged wife, Britney Spears. And sadly, George Clooney's pet pig, Max, died earlier this month. I see the death of the 19-year-old pig as a sign of hope. With the changing of the guard in Congress, this pursuit of piggishness could be maxed out. ;

In his farewell address at the Pentagon, Donald Rumsfeld said that the worst day of his nearly six years as secretary of defense was the disclosure to the world of the photographs of the prisoner abuses at Abu Ghraib. Those pictures might never have been known were it not for Joseph Darby, then a specialist with the Army's 372nd Military Police Company at Guantanamo Bay. Because his moral code told him "it had to stop," Darby may never be able to return home to Maryland. 

In a Dec. 10 interview with Darby on CBS' "60 Minutes," he told how the photos had been given to him by one of the perpetrators of the abuse, his friend, Charles Graner, now in prison. Knowing, as he says, the difference between right and wrong, Darby, anonymously, turned the pictures over to the Army's Criminal Investigation Division. But they knew where he worked, and the investigation began on who gave him the pictures. 

Darby told "60 Minutes" interviewer Anderson Cooper that he had no idea the photos would go around the world; "but you can't stand by and let this happen." 

Several months later, "60 Minutes II" obtained the pictures from another source; a New Yorker magazine article revealed Darby's name, and Rumsfeld said, at the time, in testimony before Congress that among those "who did their duty professionally" when the story broke was "First Specialist Joseph Darby, who alerted the appropriate authorities that abuses were occurring." 

While still at Guantanamo, Darby, in fear of retaliation, slept with a gun under his pillow. The Army decided to bring him back to the United States. Back home in Cumberland, Md., the whistleblower was a pariah. The commander of the local Veterans of Foreign Wars post, Colin Engelbach, told "60 Minutes" Darby "was a rat. He was a traitor. He let his unit down, he let his fellow soldiers down." 

When he arrived at Dover Air Force base, with his wife there to meet him, the Army told him it wasn't safe to go back to Cumberland, adding: "You can probably never go home." And, indeed, reported Cooper, "the Army's security assessment had concluded: 'The overall threat of criminal activity to the Darbys is imminent. A person could fire into the residence from the roadway.' " 

Does Darby regret that he turned over the pictures? "No, because if they'd been given to somebody else, it might not have been reported. We're Americans," he told Cooper. "We're not Saddam . . . We hold ourselves to a higher standard." 

Left out of the "60 Minutes" report was any mention of who was ultimately responsible for the abuses at Abu Ghraib and at other prisons in Afghanistan and Guantanamo. Charles Graner, Lynndie England and some of the other low-level guards in those photos have been punished, but not those much higher in the chain of command. 

In early 2002, when the Defense Department asked for instructions on how far they could go in extracting intelligence information from hard-to-crack detainees, a cadre of high-level lawyers at the Justice Department and Pentagon -- orchestrated by Alberto Gonzales, then counsel to the president -- set the grim climate for what happened at Abu Ghraib and elsewhere. 

Among these lawyers, the most influential, John Yoo, is back teaching law at the University of California; Jay Bybee sits on the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals, and the nomination of William Haynes II to a federal appellate court is still pending in Congress. ;

</file>

<file= AmE06_B20>

It's not surprising that, as The New York Times reports, leading Democratic politicians have latched onto bashing Wal-Mart as a "new rallying cry" that "could prove powerful in the midterm elections and in 2008." America's political culture routinely demands at least one hideous corporate villain. In recent decades that role has fallen to General Motors, IBM, ExxonMobil and Microsoft; now Wal-Mart has assumed the mantle. But these wishy-washy politicians have missed the obvious solution to the Wal-Mart problem: nationalization.
Congress should just buy the company and then legislate good behavior. Wal-Mart executives "talk about paying them [workers] $10 an hour," Sen. Joseph Biden told a rally in Iowa, according to the Times. "How can you live a middle-class life on that?"
Well, if $10 is too little, the government could order the Department of Wal-Mart to pay more. How about $15 or $20? Similarly, if Wal-Mart's health insurance is inadequate, Congress could command more coverage. (I asked Wal-Mart for coverage figures, which it declined to provide. All a spokesperson said is that more than half its 1.3 million U.S. employees are full time, enjoying higher coverage rates, and that 75 percent of all workers have some coverage through the company, the government or spouses' plans.)
OK, I jest. Congress isn't going to buy Wal-Mart--which would cost roughly $183 billion at its current stock price of about $44 a share--and I don't think it should. Still, pretending to nationalize Wal-Mart is a useful thought exercise. It shows why Wal-Mart as a government agency would actually provide fewer public benefits than as a grubby, profit-seeking colossus. The company's incentives would shift. Instead of trying to lower costs, improve efficiency and raise profits, it would focus on pleasing its political patrons and complying with their demands.
These would doubtlessly burgeon beyond wages and benefits. Politicians would find unending opportunities for grandstanding and meddling. Does Wal-Mart import too much from China? Order it to cut back. Does it treat suppliers brutally? Require it to be nicer. Are its stores ugly? Appoint architectural advisers.
Wal-Mart would deliver more political benefits to favored constituencies--workers, suppliers, competitors--and fewer to the public. Retail prices would be the biggest casualty. Scholarly studies show Wal-Mart's price reductions to be sizable. Economist Emek Basker of the University of Missouri found long-term reductions of 7 percent to 13 percent on items such as toothpaste, shampoo and detergent. Other companies are forced to reduce their prices. On food, Wal-Mart produces consumer savings that average 20 percent, estimate Jerry Hausman of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Ephraim Leibtag of the Department of Agriculture.
All told, these cuts have significantly raised living standards. How much is unclear. A study by the economic-consulting firm Global Insight found that from 1985 to 2004, Wal-Mart's expansion lowered the consumer price index by a cumulative 3.1 percent from what it would have been. That produced savings of $263 billion in 2004, equal to $2,329 for each U.S. household. Because Wal-Mart financed this study, its results have been criticized as too high. But even if price savings are only half as much ($132 billion and $1,165 per household), they'd dwarf the benefits of most government programs.
A collateral benefit is less understood. By restraining inflation, intense competition of the sort that Wal-Mart provides eases pressure on the Federal Reserve to do the job with tight credit and higher interest rates. Note the paradox: at one level, intense competition destroys jobs, as some companies can't compete, but the larger effect is to increase total job creation by fostering favorable economic conditions.
No company should be above public scrutiny. But much of the political criticism of Wal-Mart is shallow and, if followed, undesirable. Wal-Mart doesn't pay high wages and benefits mainly because it's in an industry (retailing) where those are rare. In 2005, average hourly wages were $10.85 for food stores, $10.63 for clothing stores and $10.84 for department stores. As General Motors and Ford are now discovering, companies that pay above-market labor costs ultimately shrink and destroy jobs. The efforts of some local governments--notably the Maryland Legislature and Chicago city council--to mandate higher labor costs on Wal-Mart are shortsighted.
There may even be political pitfalls to this crusade. By Wal-Mart's estimate, 85 percent of Americans shop during the year at the chain; in opinion polls it generally receives high ratings. People are voting with their pocketbooks. On any list of major national concerns, the "Wal-Mart problem" would not rank in the first 50. Why, then, are some leading Democratic politicians spending so much time talking about it? People who ask that question may conclude that Wal-Mart, though a tempting target as a political symbol, is mostly a diversion from weightier issues where what politicians think and do really matters.

It is the holy grail of human paleontology, a window on a crucial moment in our evolution. Last week scientists at the Max Planck Institute in Germany announced they would attempt to sequence the Neanderthal genome--the complete DNA of the closest known relative to modern humans, a species that disappeared from the Earth about 30,000 years ago. It is the next best thing to having a living Neanderthal for comparison--and, in theory, if you know all the genes, you could create living Neanderthals. Not that anyone has any plans to do that.
What would they be like? From their skeletons, we know they would be robust and barrel-chested, with a heavy jaw and brow; from their caves it appears they could use primitive tools and buried their dead. But they seem to have lacked modern humans' capacity for abstract thought; although they spread overland through the Middle East and Europe, they apparently never crossed a body of water they couldn't see across. Anthropologists are divided on whether they had language, and although they presumably were able to breed with Homo sapiens, there's no clear evidence they ever did. Even bringing them back to life wouldn't necessarily clear up the mystery of how and why, having lived in Europe for some 200,000 years, they failed to survive contact with modern humans, who began spreading into Europe 50,000 years ago. The most widely held theory is that our ancestors killed them off.
In fact, we will probably learn as much about Homo sapiens from the effort as we will about Neanderthals, says Svante Paabo, the Swedish-born anthropologist who heads the project. Until now, the closest species with which humans could compare their DNA was the chimpanzee, whose genome is estimated to be 99 percent identical with ours. But that 1 percent still encompasses about 35 million indi-vidual chemical changes, accumulated over the 5 million to 7 million years during which the two species have been evolving apart. Humans and Neanderthals, though, shared a common ancestor in Africa only about 400,000 years ago, and Paabo estimates that their DNA will be as much as 99.96 percent identical. Somewhere in that 0.04 percent difference presumably lies the crucial molecular changes that led from stone axes to the cave paintings of Lascaux--and the cathedral at Chartres. The genes of interest include those involved in language, brain size and metabolism, says Edward M. Rubin, chief of genetics at Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory, which has its own ongoing study of Neanderthal DNA. Once you identify them you could put them in a mouse to see what they do--and understand exactly what it is that makes us human.
Apart from its benefits, the project is a technological tour de force, coming just three years after the first complete sequencing of the DNA of a living human being. That effort took 13 years and several billion dollars. Paabo's project should take two years, using new technology that has cut the cost to $500,000. (That's for a liv-ing human; using degraded and contaminated DNA from a 30,000-year-old fossil will be many times harder.) The machine is made by a Connecticut company called 454 Life Sciences, whose founder, biotech pioneer Jonathan Rothberg, said he'd hoped to use it to sequence DNA from a T. Rex, but getting usable genetic material from a fossil buried for 70 million years turned out to be impossible.
At least for now. Not that anyone is thinking of doing that.

"Then you will see how we really live," he says, delighted.
It is actually not so difficult to abandon the display Beijing for the authentic everyday. Around the corner from the world's largest KFC is a street of shops filled with imitation jade and factory-made ceremonial robes, offering the retail equivalent of a street mugging: "Hello! Hello? Very nice things for you! Come in! Very nice!" But only a block away the insistent English-language spiel disappears. There is only the dissonant music of Mandarin voices in a traditional hutong, one of the old alleyways, narrower than the shoulder of a turnpike, that once made up the labyrinthine heart of the central city. The men selling fresh dumplings from stalls equipped with two-burner cooktops there don't call out to tourists; they assume the real China will not entice.
Their leaders obviously agree. Around another corner is a vacant lot, strewn with old brick and some of the beautiful crenelated tiles that make up the roofs of hutong houses. Demolition is the greatest constant in the capital today. In the Planning Exhibition Hall an enormous room contains a model of the city, including Lucite structures that mark buildings under construction. There is lots and lots of Lucite.
One important reason for the frantic rebuilding can be found in numerology. The steps in the Temple of Heaven can all be counted out in nines, once the number reserved for the emperor's household. But eight, a homophone for "get rich" in Cantonese, currently holds sway. Aug. 8, 2008, is when the Olympic Games open in Beijing, and when they do, officials will ensure they take place in an ultramodern high-rise city, not the low smoky hutongs of the past, in a city that has, at least in some quarters, traded Mao suits and bicycles for designerwear and the luxury car.
If this suggests that China is happy to simply mimic America wholesale, think again. President Hu is not accustomed to the kind of treatment he got on the White House lawn, where a member of the Fulan Gong, an outlawed religious sect, managed to disrupt his official remarks. In his country, journalists are monitored and arrested, protesters shot and killed. Official concern over Internet content has resulted in firewalls that block what the ruling powers don't like, including the site for Human Rights Watch, which has kept a close eye on abuses in the country. Population control through the one-child policy was implemented by fines, harassment and forced abortions. There are persistent reports that the booming market in transplants is a function of organs harvested from executed criminals without their consent.
One advantage for the Chinese in managing international outrage about all this is that the average American pays little attention. Our own national autobiography has been entwined with that of most European countries, but China had very little intercourse with the West until the late 19th century. Many Americans came to know it only vaguely, as a nation to which Christian churches sent missionaries to supplant its ancient religions with a more modern one.
But the Chinese have a peculiar relationship with their own past, too--what a dissident once termed "forgetting history." Mao Zedong may have presided over the killings of millions who were considered counterrevolutionary, but long lines of citizens gather every day to see the last emperor under glass in his mausoleum, and a respectful hush falls as they approach the body--or a wax effigy, if you believe the rumors. Outside in Tiananmen Square, where not even two decades ago hundreds were killed during student democracy protests, soldiers in the same People's Liberation Army that once strafed the crowd stand beneath an enormous clock ticking down the seconds until the Beijing Olympics begin. The message couldn't be clearer if it were digitized on the clock face: all is forgiven.

</file>

<file= AmE06_B21>

Confidence is a common trait of firefighters and other personnel engaged in emergency response work. In Boston, however, an unhealthy sense of entitlement has crept into the public safety departments, especially on the subject of private details. 
Boston firefighters earned $3 million in private detail pay last year, up from $2 million in 2003. The rules covering the details are inconsistent across the city's 11 fire districts. One district chief might require the presence of a firefighter at a wedding or outdoor festival where candles are lit or open cooking is taking place, while another chief would be satisfied knowing there is a fire extinguisher nearby. 
A good case might be made for retaining a trained firefighter in an occupied building where welding is underway near combustible materials. But short of that, it is difficult to see the value of paying a firefighter $32 per hour for private details. And that is especially true when administrative fees paid to the city by private parties are less than the amount needed to assign the details, leaving the taxpayers on the hook for the difference. 
Boston firefighters boast excellent response times. They perform well, and sometimes heroically, for a base pay of roughly $60,000 annually. But the public should also consider that Fire Commissioner Paul Christian has estimated that 80 percent of firefighters are able to fulfill their weekly work commitment in just two days by arranging a schedule of back-to-back shifts. That leaves more than ample time for moonlighting in private jobs, without the need for detail work. 
Christian, who retires tomorrow after 38 years, tried to reduce the sick-time abuse and unusually high injury rates that plague the department. The situation came to a head in January 2005, when 109 firefighters called in sick on a day when a heavy snowfall coincided with a New England Patriots playoff game. During Sunday's storm, only half that number of firefighters called in sick, according to Christian. 
The next commissioner will inherit a fire department that is well trained and well equipped. But issues such as sick time abuse and inconsistent private detail policies continue to weigh down the organization. There was some hope that Christian, a respected insider, could make headway with the union. But he leaves with labor issues unresolved and what he calls "lukewarm" relations with the rank and file. The appointment of a civilian commissioner with an extensive background in public administration, preferably an outsider, will be needed to quicken the pace of reform. 
The culture of paid details for the fire department is excessive and needs to be extinguished by better management. 

TELEVISION IMAGES can be misleading, but not in the case of the shadowy video that showed President Bush sitting quietly in Texas as he heard that Hurricane Katrina, bearing down on the Gulf Coast, was going to be "the Big One." Dressed in a suit coat even though he was on vacation, he looked like a president but did not act like one. Despite the warning on Sunday, Aug. 28, Bush let several crucial days slip by before he rallied the resources of the federal government to deal with this epochal disaster. 
Perhaps he was lulled by the take-charge attitude of Michael Brown, director of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, who, the video shows, accurately gauged the magnitude of the storm and told his subordinates to do whatever was necessary: "I'll figure out some way to justify it," he said. "Just let them yell at me." FEMA, however, didn't have resources to cope with a disaster of this magnitude. It would have required an immediate massive response by the departments of Defense and Homeland Security, and only the president could have ordered these bureaucracies into action. 
Instead, it was business as usual when the storm struck on Monday, Aug. 29, and for a day or two afterward. Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff attended a conference on bird flu in Atlanta. Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld toured military bases in California on Monday and the next day joined President Bush in San Diego for a ceremony commemorating the end of World War II. 
Bush considers himself a delegator, a character trait that was a weakness in this crisis. Vice President Dick Cheney and Chief of Staff Andrew Card were on vacation; the response wasn't coordinated until the full staff returned to duty later in the week. A hands-on president, Bill Clinton or Lyndon Johnson, for example, would have done better. 
Bush was further hampered by his decision, made after the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks, to focus his administration on the war against terrorism. In a speech at the San Diego ceremony he implicitly criticized Clinton for failing to respond to attacks in the 1990s. By fixating on his own war, Bush neglected the threat to America from wind and water. 
Three days after Katrina devastated the Gulf Coast, Bush went on television to defend his handling of the crisis, saying: "I don't think anyone anticipated the breach of the levees." That may be technically true. The weather specialist who delivered part of the video briefing only expected some water to wash over the levees, but cautioned that worse was possible. Bush did make one misstatement during the video. "I want to assure the folks at the state level that we are fully prepared," he said. But the Bush administration was not. History will judge him harshly for this failure. 

WHISTLER'S MOTHER has been evicted. After sitting in her long black dress through years of inclusion in the familiar and fat textbook "Janson's History of Art," the famous portrait of Anna Whistler painted by her Lowell-born son, James McNeill Whistler, is not included in the latest seventh edition. 
It's a small but telling salvo in the larger debate about the canon, about what knowledge matters most. 
Replacing Whistler's mother in Janson's new edition is Whistler's mistress, Joanna Hiffernan. She posed for "Symphony in White No. 2," a painting of a woman in a white dress standing beside a mirror over a fireplace mantle, her own face far lovelier than the weary- looking reflection in the mirror. 
This unintentionally settles a score. While the paintings of Whistler's mother and mistress both were exhibited in London in 1872, his mother got more public respect. Once, when Anna Whistler was on her way to visit her son, he moved Hiffernan out of his home and into nearby lodgings to keep up appearances. 
Change poses threats. It sparks fears that the mistress generation will forget what the mother generation knew. 
But the canon, of course, is always changing. Essential knowledge wanes into cliches. Professors use standard textbooks, but often only as stages upon which to give more elaborate, detailed, and updated lectures. 
And Janson's no longer competes solely with other textbooks. It is up against the canon-busting sprawl of the Internet, where knowledge seems without boundaries. And anyone who can create a website can present new continents of understanding, stretching if they want from cave paintings to the art of "The Simpsons." 
The canon is also increasingly affected by what students do and don't know. Some professors note that the country's young video game and computer experts haven't read the Bible and don't know Greek mythology. Instead, some students come to art history having read Dan Brown's novel "The Da Vinci Code," popular but fictional fare that flies free of historical facts. So the college canon has to have more entry ramps, refresher courses on Luke and Zeus, on how to sift fact from fiction and use technology to fill the holes in what one knows. 
The challenge is to teach students the canon and then teach them to leap beyond this so they can navigate in a world where knowledge is a rushing road of traffic crowded with people driving in different directions. 
What's needed is a dual pursuit both of knowledge and of the continuously changing contours of knowledge. 

NO ONE WAS in a talkative mood on Creston Street in Roxbury yesterday afternoon, one day after a daylight drive-by shooting that left one man and two teenage girls wounded. A woman sitting on a porch across from the shooting site said she was only visiting. Two men changing a tire nearby made clear that they wouldn't entertain questions. 
Silence is killing parts of Dorchester and Roxbury. Dozens of residents were enjoying the sunshine on Sunday when three men reportedly drove up Creston Street several times before one started firing. If an eyewitness steps forward to identify the shooter, however, it will be a rarity. Witness intimidation is now so common in gun- and gang-related cases that police and prosecutors despair at the chance of delivering justice. As of yesterday evening, police had not identified suspects in the Creston Street shooting. 
So much that is right and wrong about Boston is in plain view in this neighborhood. Along Blue Hill Avenue, between Creston and Intervale streets, 22 condominiums with an average selling price of $145,000 are under construction by the nonprofit Habitat for Humanity. The shootings don't dissuade the group. 
"This is exactly why we want to be there," says Habitat chairman Bruce Percelay. "That's 22 families with their eyes and ears open. They won't put up with this stuff." 
Growth in homeownership should help. But aggressive application of the state's new sweeping crime bill is needed first to convince witnesses that they will not be open targets for retaliation. The bill stalled for months in the Legislature while shooting rates escalated. Now that it is law, prosecutors must set an example by pressing for the maximum 10-year sentences in state prison for those guilty of witness intimidation. 
The building at 25 Creston St. where the shootings took place is owned by the nearby New Vision Community Development Corporation. As a rule, nonprofit development groups with a stake in the neighborhood, like New Vision, do an effective job at managing multifamily apartment buildings. But Creston Street poses a major challenge to New Vision's portfolio. Christopher Thompson, president of New Vision, says he hopes first to bring trauma specialists to the building to deal with Sunday's shooting and next to organize residents to protect their neighborhood. Destabilizing tenants, he adds, take advantage of laborious eviction proceedings to dig in. 
"We've got to neutralize the negative elements," he said. 
The shootings on Creston Street were nonfatal. But the neighborhood and others like it are in danger of being blotted out if the violence and intimidation outlast the efforts at recovery. 

At the same time, the agency is proposing weaker air-quality standards that would let oil refineries, chemical plants, hazardous waste incinerators, and other facilities emit greater amounts of toxic pollutants such as lead, mercury, and -- again -- arsenic. 
According to an internal EPA memo in December, seven of the EPA's 10 regional offices said the proposed rule would let polluters "virtually avoid regulation and greatly complicate any enforcement." The drinking water rule would affect systems serving 10,000 or fewer people, and would permit higher levels of other contaminants as well. In the case of arsenic, which occurs naturally in many water systems and is also spread by industrial pollution, about 10 million people would be drinking water that does not meet the tougher standard, which went into effect in January. Soon after the Bush administration first suspended the Clinton rule in 2001, the National Academy of Sciences reported that arsenic was even more dangerous than indicated in previous studies that had formed the basis for the Clinton rule. That report, requested by then-EPA head Christine Whitman, bolstered the belief of clean-water advocates that even the Clinton rule was too weak. The EPA proposal to permit arsenic levels as high as 30 parts per billion -- three times the Clinton rule limit -- is an open invitation for increased incidence of bladder and lung cancers. Decontaminating drinking water and reducing air pollution both cost money.

</file>

<file= AmE06_B22>

No on Alito 

From a strategic perspective, (Samuel) Alito's succinct, low- fiber responses to the often overwrought senators' questions paid off. Alito left no doubt about his impressive command of the Constitution and various milestone cases. 

But Americans deserved more. They deserved greater assurances that Alito's history as an ideologue did not presage an activist justice who would roll back the clock on rights and policies that have made this nation freer and more equitable. 

Alito failed to satisfy such concerns. Senators should reject this nomination. (Jan. 17) 

Cheney's 'friendly fire' 

As of Monday night, (Vice President Dick) Cheney, who avoids most public contact save for speeches before friendly crowds, still hadn't issued a full statement about the episode. 

No one's asking for a press conference grilling, Mr. Vice President, just an acknowledgement that the public deserves a plain- spoken explanation from the man responsible. And please, don't try that line about executive privilege protecting the White House from outside inquiry. 

There's an arrogance about the incident that pushes it past the first level of jokes and White House embarrassment. A relatively small event in the scheme of world affairs now takes on extra significance, all due to a White House that can't face reality. (Feb. 14) 

The lost Olympics 

The United States left the Turin Olympics with 25 medals and almost as many unhappy memories of lost opportunities. 

Much of the pre-Games hype centered on erstwhile world champion skier Bode Miller, who was slow when he wasn't clumsy -- and worse yet, professed not to care much. Speed skaters Chad Hedrick and Shani Davis tarnished their medal-winning performances with their testy exchanges in public. Snowboarder Lindsey Jacobellis was zipping toward an impressive victory when she decided to add a touch of flair -- grabbing her board in mid-air -- and stumbled into second place. 

Another would-be megastar of the Games, U.S. figure skater Sasha Cohen, fell twice at the start of her long program. To her credit, she persevered with a powerfully graceful finish - then accepted the silver medal with a joy and class that was too often missing from American stars in Turin. (Feb. 28) 

Katie's time 

Katie Couric, who defined the soothing and upbeat tone of morning television, is moving out of her comfort zone and into history. 

She will be tested and measured as she moves into the most rarified job in broadcast journalism: network anchor. 

The sniping at Couric's work on the lighter fare of a morning show is patently unfair. Yes, she did her share of cooking segments and author interviews over the years. But she was a respected reporter before she became a personality. Couric's NBC assignments in recent years have included myriad interviews with tough subjects -- and she has consistently shown herself to be up to the challenge, whether the interview is a world leader or a shaken survivor of the Columbine High shooting. (April 7) 

Home Run King 

Barry Bonds, who is one homer away from (Babe) Ruth's milestone, would never have had a chance to face major-league pitching if he, like Ruth, was born in 1895. But Bonds' records carry a taint of their own: the evidence that he started using steroids just before his home-run totals suddenly leaped to celestial levels at an age when most players' skills begin to fade. Bonds, who has denied using illegal performance-enhancing drugs, is facing the prospect of a perjury charge for his testimony before a federal grand jury. 

Giants fans will cheer wildly when Bonds hits No. 714 out of the park. But much of the rest of the baseball world is showing restraint and even contempt. There is an underlying feeling of sadness, of hollowness, in knowing that, unlike Ruth, Bonds is responsible for the discounting of his numbers because of their apparent chemical enhancement. (May 9) 

Mayor for Oakland 

Part of (Ron) Dellums' campaign focused on the people and neighborhoods who were left behind in the Brown years. At his news conference Monday, Dellums pledged to put together a transition team that reflected the "total diversity of this community," then building coalitions to fulfill his ambitious agenda. 

At 70, after a career in public life that took him from the Berkeley City Council to one of the most powerful chairs in the House of Representatives, Dellums may be embarking on his biggest challenge of all. In victory, he tweaked the journalists who characterized the campaign as being about him. 

"It's about us," he said Monday. 

It was as good a way as any to set the tone for a collaborative atmosphere in Oakland that will be needed for him to succeed as mayor. (June 20) 

Global warming bill 

Proponents of AB32 make a persuasive argument that there is an economic advantage to being ahead of the curve in stimulating technologies that will only increase in demand in the decades ahead. The potential economic stresses of the transition -- while admittedly difficult on certain industries -- pale in comparison to the wholesale devastation to our planet and our way of life if the nation with the world's largest economy and No. 1 contributor of greenhouse gases continues to sit on the sidelines. 

California must lead the way with the passage of AB32. (Aug. 16) 

Crocodile Hunter, R.I.P. 

For all his indulgence of risk, Steve Irwin died at 44 from one of the most improbable causes on Earth, a barb from a stingray. The element of danger was always there in Irwin's adventures. This time, luck wasn't. (Sept. 6) 

HP's lost way 

HP's lawyers said "pretexting," or using a false identity to obtain phone records, didn't break any laws. This hacking was "not generally unlawful," legal pettifoggery good enough to frame. 

This trouble can't be tidied up so easily. State Attorney General Bill Lockyer, who called the snooping "colossally stupid," is investigating. He thinks laws were broken, though there's no suspect as yet. HP's executives are in full damage-control mode, declining to name the investigators or explain the overboard inquiry. 

It's a tone-deaf performance from a company that knows better. (Sept. 8) 

Foster-care reform 

Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger today will sign eight bills designed to make a difference in the lives of tens of thousands of foster children in California ... 

... As Schwarzenegger noted in a letter to Assembly Speaker Fabian Nez in May, California has an "obligation to act" in response to the "sobering statistics" about what is happening to these children -- to our children, our collective responsibility. 

"We tried to craft legislation that would have an immediate impact on people's lives," said (Assemblywoman Karen) Bass, who emerged as the Legislature's champion of the foster-care cause. 

In a bold and bipartisan way, California legislators delivered an unprecedented combination of funds and laws to upgrade the foster- care system. (Sept. 22) 

Our choice: Arnold 

Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger said "something very special happened" in his third year in office. 

"We found the groove," he proclaimed during an interview with our editorial board last week. 

And Sacramento has been grooving with him. The just-completed legislative session represented one of the most productive in recent memory. The Republican governor and Democratic legislators worked together on essential long-term goals (upgrade our transportation systems and schools, help stop global warming) and short-term imperatives (raise the minimum wage, reform foster care, secure drug discounts for the uninsured) that will have an impact on Californians' lives. 

The climate of cooperation in Sacramento can be traced directly to the conciliatory tone struck by Schwarzenegger on the night of last year's special-election debacle ... In Schwarzenegger, Californians have a governor who can listen, focus and lead. He deserves to be re-elected on Nov. 7. (Oct. 19) 

Speaker Pelosi 

The message from American voters in Tuesday's midterm elections was ... change the course. 

That national mood was evident from the earliest returns. Americans were angry about the war in Iraq and the corruption and scandals that have enveloped Capitol Hill. 

As a result, the Democrats regained control of the U.S. House of Representatives for the first time since 1994 and, as the counting went on late into the night, were inching within striking distance of claiming a majority in the U.S. Senate. 

It was a historic night for the House and one of pride and elevated clout for San Francisco. "Speaker Nancy Pelosi" is about to become a reality. After two decades in Congress, the nation's first female speaker has all the qualities for the job -- the right blend of toughness and compassion, the knack for building and rewarding loyalties. (Nov. 8) 

So long, Rumsfeld 

One of President Bush's most-difficult tasks involving the war in Iraq was defending Donald Rumsfeld. Capitol Hill war critics, troop newspapers and a growing number of military leaders wanted the flinty, cocksure defense secretary gone. 

Now, in the aftermath of a White House defeat at the polls, Rumsfeld is out. Whether his exit is a peace offering to Democrats or damage control, it's welcome. 

The president badly needs fresh advice and independent thinking. (Nov. 9) 

Santa Clara 49ers? 

Chances are, the 49ers will be looking for some form of public assistance -- development rights, tax incentives, something -- to build an $800 million stadium that can't be financed on ticket sales alone. Santa Clara voters may well look at (owner John) York's less-than-forthright dealings with San Francisco and wonder how much to trust him. 

This region has been around the block enough times to know that the announcement of a team's relocation is not the same as a done deal. It's much too early to begin grieving about a lost city treasure or to start selling those "San Francisco 49ers of Santa Clara" caps and T-shirts. (Nov. 10) 

Iraq Study Group 

The elders have spoken: War is not the answer in Iraq. 

The nine wise men and one wise woman on the bipartisan Iraq Study Group accompanied their grim assessment of the situation in Iraq -- "grave and deteriorating" -- with the framework of a plausible alternative. 

In essence, the study group is asking President Bush to reconsider all of his fundamental assumptions about the war in Iraq, starting with his frequent assertion that "we're winning and we will win," unless the United States loses the will to stay until the "job is done." ... 

... The path laid out by the Iraq Study Group is one of hard work and aggressive diplomacy, fraught with uncertainty and extending well beyond Iraq's borders. It elevates a "comprehensive Arab- Israeli peace" to the place it belongs as a foundation of regional stability. 

Most of all, it involves Republicans and Democrats suppressing their cravings for partisan advantage and working together in the nation's interest. 

The elders are right. It's time to change course. (Dec. 7) 

Gerald R. Ford, 1913-2006 

No one would attempt to place Gerald R. Ford among the great presidents in U.S. history. But at a moment when his country needed a president of decency and humility -- and a feel for the national mood -- the former congressman from Grand Rapids, Mich., rose to the occasion. ;

TALK ABOUT taking the polar opposite view. After years of gutting environmental standards and denying global warming, the Bush administration has agreed to study whether or not the iconic and much-loved polar bear should be added to the nation's endangered species list. Bravo. 

Of course, the announcement came only after a lawsuit, a year of stonewalling, and an unprecedented public shift in thinking about global warming. Over a year ago, three environmental organizations sued the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service for just such a proposal after federal officials had been "reviewing" the status of polar bears for more than two years. There was nothing for them to review, really -- polar bears hunt, mate and procreate on polar ice, which has been shrinking at a rapid rate. Without ice, the bears starve on land. And so their population has declined 15 percent in the last decade, and things have gotten so bad for them that they are breaking into homes in search of food and marauding through towns - - recently, a polar bear was responsible for the death of a 15- year-old girl in the far western Russian Arctic.;

</file>

<file= AmE06_B23>

The disclosure of another secret counterterrorism program, this one mining international banking transactions, has revealed something far more troubling:
A fundamental chasm of mutual trust and confidence between the Bush administration and the nation's leading newspapers.
From this distance, and without more knowledge of the discussions between the administration and the newspapers, it is hard to pass judgment on the decision to publish. In general, history teaches that democracy is better served by a free press informing citizens about their government than by secrecy.
But the reaction from the White House and its cheering section, both in Congress and beyond, has been anything but constructive. President Bush called the disclosure "disgraceful," and Vice President Cheney lumped it together with the New York Times' previous disclosure of the secret eavesdropping on international phone calls without search warrants. Some Republicans on Capitol Hill have accused the newspapers of treason and called for a criminal investigation.
The central question is whether the news story will make it more difficult to track terrorist groups by following their money, as the White House claims. In fact, it's not clear whether the bank monitoring program was all that secret.
The Boston Globe reported this week that its own searches of public records, including government documents posted on the Internet, congressional testimony and guidelines for bank examiners, "describe how U.S. authorities have openly sought new tools to track terrorist financing since 2001. That includes getting access to information about terrorist-linked wire transfers and other transactions."
This latest clash between the newspapers and the White House calls for a more reasonable conversation about the competing obligations of openness in a free society and security in a time of war.
No responsible editor or publisher would deny the government's ability to effectively wage a war and keep some secrets from the enemy. We are Americans and patriots, too. In other wars in other eras, presidents have occasionally sought and received cooperation from newspapers that agreed not to publish sensitive information in the name of national security.
President Bush has lost the high ground to effectively make the same argument because of his administration's expansive view of executive power, its lack of respect for the judicial and legislative branches and its reflexive secrecy. Meanwhile, Congress consistently has failed to exercise its oversight role and hold the White House accountable for its actions. Some members of Congress had been informed about the financial tracking program only after newspapers started asking questions.
That leaves journalists in a lonely spot as they fulfill their obligation to aggressively report on our government's actions and publish fair, accurate accounts that citizens can judge for themselves.
We hope that the decision by the New York Times and other newspapers to reveal the data-mining program does no damage to the government's efforts to track down terrorists by tracing their sources of money.
Moreover, we hope that senior administration officials, including the president himself, take this opportunity not to make their case against the newspapers, but to make their case with the people who run them. This issue will arise again, and the discussion needs less superheated rhetoric about treason and more clear and specific evidence about the consequences of disclosure.
In return, the newspaper editors and publishers need to be open to the arguments of an administration that has used national security as an excuse to keep too many secrets.
In this era of a seemingly endless war and a shadow enemy, the stakes have become very high - for the press, for the government, and most of all, for the citizens they both serve.
The world is a better place without Abu Musab al-Zarqawi in it. The Sunni terrorist and his henchmen introduced the grotesque butchery of beheadings and suicide bombings to the war in Iraq. As the reaction in the region revealed, even many of the anti-American Sunnis whom Zarqawi claimed to represent had become appalled by the indiscriminate sadism of his tactics in Iraq and Jordan.
As recently as a year ago, eliminating the Zarqawi cancer might have marked a strategic turning point in Iraq. But Zarqawi succeeded in fomenting a broader sectarian war, and he leaves behind what Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld on Thursday called "a network of networks'' of terror in Iraq and elsewhere that can survive even the loss of a leader who encouraged a cult of personality. The 24 hours following the deaths of Zarqawi and several of his lieutenants brought an unabated spree of car bombings, kidnappings, random murders and other carnage in and around Baghdad.
Still, Zarqawi's death represents the most spectacular success for beleaguered coalition forces since the capture of Saddam Hussein. U.S., Iraqi and Jordanian intelligence operatives reportedly cooperated in the planning that led to the assault on Zarqawi's hideout near Baqouba. Building reliable partnerships with Iraq's security forces and supportive neighboring governments is a prerequisite for an orderly withdrawal of U.S. forces from Iraq.
To that end, a couple of less dramatic events this week may hold even more promise:
After weeks of stalemate, new Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki finally completed his Cabinet with the appointments of Jawad Kadem al-Bolani, a Shiite, as interior minister, and Gen. Abdul Qadr Mohammed Jassim, a Sunni, as defense minister. Earlier in the week, Maliki set in motion the release of thousands of prisoners, mostly Sunni, who were found to have been detained without just cause since the war began.
These efforts at reconciliation are only tentative steps toward building a more representative and self-sustaining Iraqi government. The divisions between Sunni and Shiite factions (and among competing Shiite blocs) remain acute, particularly within Iraq's police and security forces. Still, Maliki already has made more progress in that direction than his inept predecessor, Ibrahim al-Jaafari, managed in the previous year.
The rebuilding of Iraq will depend on incremental progress more than spectacular headlines. In the early, optimistic days of this war, White House officials overreacted to the capture of Hussein, the deaths of his sons and the rounding up of most of the faces on that notorious deck of Baathist cards. Meanwhile, the violence and chaos in Iraq continued to spread.
In public, the president and other administration officials reacted with more reserve to Zarqawi's death. They and our forces in Iraq are entitled to celebrate more fully in private this rare day of good news in a miserable war. The families and friends of Nicholas Berg, Eugene Armstrong and the thousands of other victims of Zarqawi's atrocities also are entitled to take some grim satisfaction from knowing that this mass murderer has met the fate he deserved.
The Nazi Holocaust probably was the most well-documented mass slaughter in world history. The Nazis established a well-ordered process for systematically murdering most of Western Europe's Jewish population, along with Gypsies, homosexuals and other victimized groups. And every criminal act had its piece of paper. But for too long those records have been held out of public view, denying the families of victims the positive proof of their relatives' fate that they deserve.
Finally, the German government has decided to drop its opposition to opening a massive archive of 50-million documents that has been held in the German town of Bad Arolsen since the end of World War II. The archive is more than 15 miles long and has information on 17.5-million people. It has been administered for the last 60 years by the International Tracing Service, an arm of the International Committee of the Red Cross, which helped people locate information on lost relatives who perished under the monstrous Nazi regime.
Ostensibly because of strict German privacy laws and other restrictions put in place when the archive was established, the documents have been kept sequestered and unavailable for historians and researchers. Even Holocaust survivors seeking information on relatives have sometimes had to wait years for answers due to the backlog. The archive's unanswered tracing inquiries stand at more than 400,000.
If the records were opened and digitized, no one would have to wait. With Holocaust survivors well into their sunset years, this cannot happen soon enough.
The United States has pressed for years to wrench open the documents, but the Germans have insisted that the archive remained closed until all legal liability issues were resolved. They said disclosing uncomfortable historical truths, such as who was subject to gruesome medical experiments and why, and who was treated for lice in the camps, might raise privacy claims.
It was a ridiculous and disturbing stall tactic.
Finally, German Justice Minister Brigitte Zypries has announced that her government will work to revise the international agreement that governs the records cache, to make them available to the public. The change is welcome, even if it is long overdue.
The immensity of Nazi crimes and the details of those atrocities are an established history that belongs to all mankind. When the world promises "never again" it needs to know the breadth and depth of the horrors of which man is capable.

The education establishment Gov. Jeb Bush has fought for seven years is now the reflection in the mirror and every bit as resistant. In his final year in office, Bush is so certain he is always right that his legacy agenda aspires, among other things, simply to get the last word.
Here are a few examples:
School vouchers. The state Supreme Court tossed out his first voucher program, Opportunity Scholarships, but he is willing to change the Constitution or risk court sanction to save it. The constitutional course is the more honest approach but would require the governor to explain to voters why he has never held private schools accepting vouchers to the same standard as public schools. The trickier, and legally suspect, route is to change the method of payment by folding the program into the existing Corporate Tax Credit Scholarship. Lawmakers might want to ask Patrick Heffernan, one of the original corporate voucher suppliers, why he thinks that is a bad idea.
Class size. Voters in 2002 rejected Bush's pleas and approved a constitutional amendment requiring fewer students in overcrowded classrooms. The governor is insisting they change their minds. The plan legislative leaders are embracing is a shameless barter deal, aimed at tricking voters into repealing part of the class size amendment in favor of an arbitrary and unnecessary requirement that 65 cents of each education dollar be spent in the classroom. The 65 Percent Solution is a partisan gimmick that could be passed legislatively. Linking the two is an insult.
Performance pay. The Legislature, frustrated that some districts haven't adopted workable performance-pay plans for teachers, couldn't decide last year whether to adopt a statewide plan. So the governor, through his Board of Education, is enacting his own. His attempt to tie bonuses solely to standardized test scores has angered teachers, principals, superintendents, school boards, and, according to a new opinion poll, the public. Are lawmakers willing to look the other way?
High school. Bush wants high school students to select majors, much like university students. But he has yet to identify the money necessary to expand alternative programs, such as vocational and technical education, and to hire additional guidance counselors. His changes in course requirements would also leave students with few options to explore electives.
This amounts to Jebucation, and it often thrives on the opposition of those it serves. The governor surrounds himself with people of similar views and then brands critics as enemies of change. In his final year in office, though, even some supporters are growing weary with his constant meddling.
"It's absolutely unreasonable to think a school district can focus on all those things at one time and still keep the buses running," says David Mosrie, chief executive officer of the Florida Association of District School Superintendents. "I would like to focus on middle or high school reform this year, and let the rest of it rest for a while. . . . Someone once told me if you have 50 priorities you really don't have any."

</file>

<file= AmE06_B24>

No mission of NASA's shuttle has been more exciting or successful than the one in 1993, when astronauts repaired the Hubble Space Telescope. After 11 days in orbit and a record five spacewalks, the crew of Endeavour replaced flawed components that had rendered Hubble's pictures blurry.
In so doing they made the telescope all it was supposed to be: a spectacularly powerful window on the universe that could deliver crisp and breathtaking images of far-off galaxies.
Astronauts have been back to the Hubble three more times. But the most important trip since 1993 will likely come in 2008. On Tuesday, NASA Administrator Michael Griffin announced a final service call to Hubble, reversing a decision by his predecessor, Sean O'Keefe, who had opted to let the space telescope die within the next few years rather than approve a mission that was seen as particularly risky after the Columbia disaster. This new mission will upgrade key parts and extend Hubble's life to about 2013.
Griffin made the right call. This mission poses more risks than most, but preserving one of NASA's most successful programs warrants it. The shuttle, moreover, has no other major duties besides completing the International Space Station, a program that faces an iffy future.
The shuttle's relationship with Hubble underscores a powerful irony. The shuttle never succeeded in its mission of dramatically increasing the human presence in space. That is because human space flight was, is, and likely will remain extraordinarily expensive and dangerous. But the shuttle has done one thing fabulously well: nurture one of NASA's most popular robotic programs.
Robotic missions were once secondary to the more glamorous manned missions. Now programs such as Hubble, and the Spirit and Opportunity rovers exploring Mars, are the stars while human space flight is in a prolonged identity crisis.
The shuttle is slated to die in 2010, largely unloved. Griffin said last year in a meeting with USA TODAY's editorial board that it had been a mistake. The space station has failed to deliver much science or enthusiasm and has been orphaned by the Bush administration. The current plan, to send astronauts back to the moon and on to Mars, is based on the dubious premise that it can rekindle interest in human space flight by retracing small steps and giant leaps made more than 30 years ago.
If future Congresses or presidents pull the plug on this program, there may still be a role for astronauts -- as cosmic repairmen.

For all its flaws, the trial of Saddam Hussein was the first time in memory that a nation has tried and sentenced to death a dictator who terrorized its people. For all the messiness of the nearly three- year-long process, that is no small thing.
Sunday's verdict condemned Saddam to hang for the killing of 148 Iraqis after a 1982 assassination attempt on him. Its greatest impact should be to put other brutal tyrants on notice that they, too, might one day pay for their crimes, even a quarter-century later.
Too often in recent history, murderous dictators have escaped accountability. Adolf Hitler made his cowardly exit through suicide. Uganda's Idi Amin died in luxurious exile in Saudi Arabia. Chile's Augusto Pinochet has escaped justice with Houdini-like legal maneuvers.
Over the past decade, there has been a concerted international effort to correct such failings and bring to account the monsters who derive power from mass killings, genocide and torture, but the experience has proved frustrating.
When an international tribunal in The Hague, Netherlands, tried Serbia's Slobodan Milosevic, it became an example of how not to proceed. Milosevic's trial was carried out far from Serbia, with so many international judges and translators and with such vague rules that Milosevic, acting as his own lawyer, was able to turn it into a years-longcircus. The whole thing became moot when Milosevic died earlier this year.
Other international efforts have fared better. A special court, set up by the government of Sierra Leone and the United Nations, has sentenced several people for crimes against humanity. Former Liberian dictator Charles Taylor is on trial there. A permanent international criminal court shows promise, though the United States has refused to join it because it does not want Americans to fall under its jurisdiction.
The most effective court, though, has to have a firm national authority. That overriding aim only partly succeeded in Iraq. There was heavy U.S. pressure in the background. Saddam, 69, presented a pitiful yet defiant figure. At times, he disrupted the proceedings, declaring he was on a hunger strike, complaining about his conditions, trying to intimidate the judges or delivering political speeches.
But overall, the judges acquitted themselves admirably, even as the country was disintegrating all around them.
Like other major developments of the past three years, the verdict's impact on the broader Iraq war is likely to be limited. A dictator's grip is psychological. It slips once he is revealed as a mere human being. Although the verdict has fanned tensions -- Shiites and Kurds, whom Saddam repressed, have been cheering and dancing in the streets as his fellow Sunnis denounce it -- it is hard to imagine the sentence making the sectarian violence much worse than it already is. Certainly, any hope that Saddam's trial would promote national healing and reconciliation has long since evaporated.
Saddam won't be put to death immediately. He will appeal, and he is the defendant in another trial involving the gassing of Kurds in northern Iraq.
But in what mattered most, the trial has succeeded. It is, in fact, one of the few accomplishments of President Bush's misbegotten war of choice in Iraq. A brutal dictator has been brought to account, and more than a few others are sleeping less easily.
"I won't answer to this so-called court. ... Who are you? What are you?" Saddam asked at the trial's opening last year.
Sunday's outcome showed that, as any other human being, he did have to answer.
On Thursday, we gave thanks -- for the food on the table, for family and friends, for good health. We prayed for peace on earth and remembered the needy. We cooked and ate and enjoyed a day with loved ones.
Today we shop.
The drill is familiar to all by now: Get to the store early, run up lots of debt while "saving" on sale items. It's as much a part of the Thanksgiving weekend as stuffed turkey.
More even. At least that's the way some retailers see things. This year, some stores moved their Black Friday opening from 5a.m. to 12:01 a.m. Others, such asCompUSA and BJ's Wholesale Club, went a step further and opened on Thanksgiving Day itself, so shoppers could get a head start on the post-Thanksgiving madness. If the early birds get their way, this will become the latest big thing. And rushing off to the store today will be so very, very -- yesterday.
Sooner or later this was bound to happen. Thanksgiving, after all, does kind of get in the way of things. It's a day when millions of Americans stay home, dine in and keep their wallets in their pockets. If it weren't the quintessential American holiday, it would probably be deemed un-American.
It wasn't such a problem when the day after Thanksgiving actually marked the beginning of the Christmas shopping season, the day communities could, in good taste, hang plastic wreaths and red ribbons on street lamps to remind people of their shopping obligations.
But with the official start having been moved forward (to sometime around Valentine's Day, we believe) Thanksgiving is an inopportune timeout just as Christmas commerce is reaching a fever pitch. By opening on Thanksgiving, these retailers hope that hard- core shoppers will come to them first. If that happens, other retailers will feel pressure to open on the holiday, too.
Aside from depriving store employees the opportunity to spend a full day with their families, the "open on Thanksgiving" trend has ramifications well beyond the retail trade. In a sense, these retailers are putting the question to the American people of how important Thanksgiving is. Will they still want to spend time quietly with family and friends when they could be out and stalking the elusive PlayStation 3?
We hope that for most the answer is yes. That's the only way to keep Thanksgiving a very special day.

Twenty years ago, mounting evidence that secondhand smoke posed a threat to non-smokers prompted the National Academy of Sciences to call for a smoking ban on all domestic airline flights. The reasoning was pretty simple: The enclosed space and recycled air of an airplane cabin pose a particular danger. Nevertheless, the federal government's answer was an emphatic "No."
How remarkably times have changed.
Airliners are smoke-free, and a sea change in public attitudes about smoking is prompting restrictions of all sorts. Today, 18 states ban smoking in most workplaces. Ohio and Nevada join the list this week; two more states join next year. Bans on smoking in restaurants and other public spaces are proliferating. Further, smoking is in decline, from 26.5% of U.S. adults in 1986 to less than 21% last year. Smokers clearly are losing political clout. This is a remarkable success story, but some people seem intent on proving that there can be too much of a good thing.
The first signs of trouble were bans on smoking in places where secondhand smoke poses no threat to health. Last year, for instance, San Francisco banned smoking in public parks.
Now the battleground is the family car.
Earlier this year, Arkansas and Louisiana banned smoking in cars carrying young children. Similar proposals have been introduced in seven other states.
The benefits are dubious.
While children of smokers indisputably are the primary victims of secondhand smoke, cars aren't the biggest problem. Children are exposed to far more smoke at home. But with the home beyond the reach of regulation, anti-smoking advocates have struggled to find a way to protect them.
A public education campaign to persuade parents not to harm their kids might have helped, but instead, states used billions won in the late 1990s by suing the tobacco industry for unrelated spending. Most states, Arkansas and Louisiana included, spend less than the minimum recommended by the federal government on anti-smoking programs.
So their new laws, illogically, now burden police. With nearly 1,200 children younger than 10 killed in traffic accidents and 130,000 injured across the nation last year, shouldn't police focus on such violations as drunken driving, speeding or failing to buckle a child into a car seat or seatbelt?
Rep. Bob Mathis, the author of the Arkansas bill, doesn't even expect the law to function as written. He set the fine at $25, which can be suspended if a driver attends a smoking-cessation program. He says he doesn't want the law to "be punitive"; he wants to educate parents. If Mathis wants to educate, he should have sought state funds for a public advertising campaign.
When children are endangered, there certainly is reason for public attention and for government action. But not without limits and not for show.
If smokers are to be stopped from letting their habit jeopardize their children's health, then it will have to done not by fiat, but by persuasion.
That's not as easy as banning smoking on airplanes. But until the nation decides that parents no longer get to decide what's best for their kids, it's the only option that can work.

Some things are not meant to go together -- like the combination floor wax and dessert topping hawked in a mock advertisement on an early Saturday Night Live episode. Or this: religion and video-game carnage.
This latter combination of dubious merit is now available at stores ($59.99 for a collector's version that includes a Bible) under the name Left Behind: Eternal Forces.
The faith-based video game, based on the popular Left Behind series of apocalyptic novels by Tim LaHaye and Jerry Jenkins, takes place in post-Rapture New York City.

</file>

<file= AmE06_B25>

The good news for immigration reform is that both liberal Democrats and conservative Republicans are denouncing a plan put forward last week. When both sides care enough to complain, at least they're talking. 
This plan comes from Representative Mike Pence of Indiana, the Republican who has spent the summer selling the idea to his party's leaders on Capitol Hill and in the White House. With their encouragement, he joined a Senate Republican, Kay Bailey Hutchison, in unveiling a shrewd compromise between the House's approach to immigration -- seal the border! -- and the Senate's plan for a guest-worker program. 
To mollify the border hawks, Hutchison and Pence proposed a guest-worker program that wouldn't start for two years, and then only if the president certified that new border security measures had been carried out. Although some Democrats are complaining publicly about the delay, this isn't a deal-breaker, because it would take a couple of years to set up the guest-worker program anyway. 
To get a guest-worker visa, immigrants would have to apply in their home countries. That's another concession to the House Republicans, who accused the Senate of effectively offering amnesty to illegal immigrants by letting them remain in America while they applied for a visa. 
By making them go home, Pence can reassure the Republican base that lawbreakers aren't being rewarded, they're just being given the same chance to apply for a visa as any worker in their home country. Anyone in a Latin American country with a free-trade agreement with the United States could get a visa if an American employer promised to hire him. 
But would illegal immigrants be willing to go home? Democratic critics of Pence, like Senator Edward Kennedy, warn that immigrants would be too afraid of losing their jobs, and in many cases their families, to risk being stranded in their home countries waiting for a visa. 
That's a valid concern, especially if federal bureaucrats had to process all those applications. Immigration officials are already swamped with paperwork. If millions of illegal immigrants suddenly started applying for a new guest-worker program, they could end up waiting years for visas. 
But Pence has an ingenious solution: guarantee workers that their visa applications will be processed within two weeks. The federal government would oversee the process and run background checks for security risks, but most of the routine work -- processing applications, doing medical checks, matching applicants with employers -- would be handled at ''Ellis Island centers'' in Latin American countries run by American private companies or agencies. 
Pence thinks the most likely operators of these centers would be companies experienced in placing job applicants, like Monster.com. But some of Pence's fans in the White House and on Capitol Hill envision letting other groups get involved too -- perhaps churches or labor unions or trade associations. 
If an applicant already had an employer willing to hire him, the center would confirm it. If he were looking for a job, the center would see if any employers were interested. Once word got out that there was a quick way to get a visa, illegal immigrants would want to come out of the shadows, and their employers would be under new pressure to make sure workers had the visas. 
The guest workers would be able, after 17 years, to apply for permanent residency. Some Democrats fear that after the long wait it might still be impossible for the immigrants to become citizens, but Pence says the system can be set up to make sure there are enough slots for them as long as they follow the law. 
''I don't think the American people are very concerned about giving legal immigrants the choice of permanent status or citizenship in the future,'' Pence says. ''What concerns Americans is giving people amnesty for breaking the law right now.'' 
Pence, the chairman of the Republican conservative caucus in the House, figures that of the more than 110 members in the caucus, a third are dead set against his proposal. But he estimates that a third are undecided, and a third are leaning in favor. 
Getting them and the rest of Congress to pass this proposal in time for the election won't be easy -- certainly not as simple as railing at illegal immigrants, as Republicans have been doing in their interminable hearings around the country. But if they want to show voters they can do something besides complain, there's a deal to be made. 

As I see it, Prime Minister Ehud Olmert is shooting Israel and America in the feet (and Lebanon in the stomach) each day that he continues his onslaught, with President Bush enthusiastically providing the ammunition. 
But since discussions of the Middle East usually involve people shouting past each other, let me stop harrumphing and try to address head-on the arguments of the many readers who disagree. 
It's a tragedy that Lebanese children are dying, but it would be crazy to accept a cease-fire now. That would hand Hezbollah a huge victory and return the Middle East to the impossible situation of the last few years, with rockets still raining down on northern Israel. So the U.S. has to give Israel space to get this job done. 
Look at the results so far with the job half done: some 600 dead Lebanese, and scores of dead Israelis; Hezbollah's rise to heroic status; the strengthening of Syria's hard-line regime; the weakening of moderates like King Abdullah of Jordan; a boost for Shiite militants in Iraq and around the region; the marginalization of Lebanon's democracy movement; and the further trashing of America's reputation around the world. 
Lebanese, instead of turning on Hezbollah, are rallying around it. A poll by the Beirut Center for Research and Information found that 87 percent of those surveyed supported Hezbollah's battles with Israel. That included 80 percent of Lebanese Christians surveyed. 
So with those results after more than three weeks, why will it be any different in another couple of weeks? 
It is, of course, possible that bunker-buster bombs could decapitate Hezbollah's leadership. But Israel didn't achieve a victory in the 18 years before it withdrew from Lebanon in 2000, so it's time to move toward a cease-fire -- not only to save Lebanese lives but also to get on with the business of a diplomatic solution. 
There may be a diplomatic solution, but first we have to clear out Hezbollah from southern Lebanon. Then an international force can go in as a buffer, and Israel will be delighted to pull out. 
It's fine to talk about an international force, but no country will send troops if Hezbollah objects. Otherwise, those troops will be targets, as they were in 1983. And Hezbollah and Syria won't approve unless there is some larger agreement between Israel and Lebanon -- and some benefit to Syria as well. 
How can one negotiate with those who would destroy you? Israel tried restraint and Hezbollah used the time to build up its arsenal. 
President Bush is right about one thing: We need to do more than restore the prewar situation on the Israeli-Lebanese border. There is also an opportunity here -- to achieve a landmark Lebanon-Israel peace deal. 
Edward Walker, former ambassador to Israel and former assistant secretary of state for the region, told me he thought a long-term settlement was plausible (although he acknowledged that he was also the optimistic boy who expected a pony every Christmas). France is showing leadership in pressing for such a lasting deal, and Mr. Bush should push that diplomatic effort with every administration sinew. 
Terms of a genuine settlement might involve an exchange of prisoners, Israel giving up the Shebaa Farms area (if not to Lebanon, then to an international force), and an Israeli promise not to breach Lebanese territory or airspace unless attacked. Hezbollah would commit to becoming a purely political force and to dismantling its militia, with its weaponry going to the Lebanese armed forces. Israel would resume talks with Syria on the Golan Heights, the U.S. would resume contact with Syria, and Syria would agree to stop supplying weaponry to Hezbollah (or allowing it in from Iran). Syria and Hezbollah would then pledge cooperation with a robust international buffer force along the border. Some of this may have to come in stages: for example, with Hezbollah first leaving the border area and then giving up its weaponry. 
Granted, it's odd for Israel to hand over Shebaa Farms to Lebanon, since old maps show pretty clearly that it was Syrian. But Syria, seeking to make mischief, has said that it is Lebanese, and it certainly is not Israeli. 
Israel would worry that such a settlement would be seen as rewarding Hezbollah and would encourage other militant groups. That's a legitimate concern. But such moves would also remove the raison d'etre for Hezbollah's militia, and they are probably the price for achieving calm in northern Israel. So let's stop the killing and start the talking. 

A few days later the box came. I carried it upstairs and opened it. It was like letting induced obsolescence loose in the house. I moved our former television -- 21 inches, 12 years old -- out of the way. What a squat, toadlike object it had become over the years! What a perfectly cubelike concentration of gravity! The old DVD player? Toast. The VCR? A laughably analog apparatus for dragging magnetized videotape along its sorry, bleary path. And as for TiVo, time for yet another upgrade. 
It seemed, in fact, as though the very idea of television itself was disintegrating. Televisions have always contained two devices: an apparatus for displaying the picture and a tuner for receiving the broadcast signal. And yet they have always seemed like single things, as unitary as a light bulb. You plug them in, turn them on, and there is the old familiar glow of ''Laverne and Shirley'' beaming down out of the skies. But this new television is nothing like that. It is a town square, an ecumenical gathering place for signals of all kinds. There are all the usual connections, of course, plus ports for a computer (which plays DVD's), a game controller (which plays DVD's too), a video iPod (which plays downloaded videos), and a separate port for something I have never heard of called ''Service.'' There's a tuner in the TV and also two in the TiVo box. So where, exactly, is ''the television''? 
I think the answer is that we are now the television. Think of all the devices we carry that snatch signal out of the air or intercept it as it streams past over cable of some kind or another. Think of all the possible sources of signal -- not merely network and cable but Youtube and iTunes and a million more as broadband broadens. A device like TiVo used to seem remarkable: sitting at home, watching television all day long, saving what we asked it to save or what it thought we might like to have saved. But there is no such thing as cosmic TiVo, dialed in to all the signals that pass through our lives, coordinating and saving Web sources and air sources and cable sources and personal sources, like home videos and digital photos. We ourselves are the tuner in the television set, modulating all these inputs, carrying them to the new flat-screen panel for viewing, one by one. The idea of sitting down in front of ''the television'' and watching ''what's on'' seems almost romantically archaic. Until you try it. Then it just seems archaic. 
These are my thoughts now. I have not even begun to think about the coming battle between the two new high-definition DVD formats -- Blu-Ray and HD-DVD. I'm like a lot of people with a new flat-screen television -- like anyone who bought a television in the early 1950's, for that matter. It's hard to care much what you are watching when the picture is so good. But this is a temporary state of satisfaction. I suspect it will last only a weekend.

</file>

<file= AmE06_B26>

Americans rarely glimpse their troubling dependency on an inexpensive but dirty and dangerous energy source, coal. This week's mine disaster in West Virginia that killed 12 workers points to a need for greater care to justify a rising US reliance on coal. 
Better mine safety is just one need. So, too, is less destructive mining and cleaner burning of a resource that may well serve American energy needs for two more centuries. More than half of US electricity is now generated with coal, and new technologies could soon enable liquefied and gasified coal to start replacing traditional petroleum. 
While progress on all levels of handling coal has improved (mining deaths, for instance, peaked in 1907), the public's intolerance for accidents and pollution also continues to rise. Witness the nation's heartfelt reaction this week to a communication miscue at West Virginia's Sago Mine about whether the miners were found alive. 
Coal executives and government officials should strive for better overall performance to justify a growing US dependency on coal. The nation has indeed seen sustained progress in coal-mine safety since the passage of tougher laws in 1969 and 1977, and the creation of the federal Mine Safety and Health Administration (MSHA). But the industry's injury rate hit a plateau in the mid-1990s, indicating a need for MSHA to find other ways to enhance inspections, training, company compliance, and technical support, especially in the more dangerous mining done underground, and mainly in the Appalachian states. 
Early reports on the causes for this week's accident indicate a need for state and federal inspectors to be given greater enforcement tools when a company shows a pattern of neglect in not taking all necessary safety precautions. The Sago Mine's safety violations rose sharply in 2005, a year when ownership of the mine changed hands. Higher fines and improved inspections will likely be required to counter such company lapses in management. 
The Bush administration and Congress should also take a fresh look at whether MSHA's $280 million budget and 2,200 employees are adequate, given the forecasts for coal usage in the 21st century. (Worldwide, coal consumption is expected to rise 1.4 percent a year until 2030, or nearly 1 billion more tons a year than present levels.) Recent MSHA cutbacks and rule changes should be reviewed by Congress. Also, the agency's internal watchdog unit will likely need more authority to correct problems. 
Nonetheless, fatal mine accidents, while serious, are not the major damage from coal usage. Pollution is considered coal's biggest killer, not to mention its likely contribution to global warming from carbon dioxide emissions. Coal pollution, however, has been greatly reduced since the 1970s due to new "clean" technologies and tougher enforcement. 
But again, the nation must expect better handling of this cheap but dirty fuel, otherwise it should increase government support for cleaner but more expensive energy sources. 
This latest mining tragedy should drive the US to look hard at the trade-offs in its coal dependency, and make sure the human and environmental costs are diminishing.

Any picture from space shows that Earth has water, water everywhere. But finding a glassful to drink is another matter. Americans eagerly grab a pricey bottle of water at even the hint that what comes from their tap might be tainted or just not tasty. 
Water is like land: Nobody is making any more of it. But, then again, there's no need. Water is never "used up": It's the ultimate recyclable, constantly changing forms and locations between glacier, cloud, river, pond, ocean, or underground aquifer. 
Of Earth's plenteous supply, only 2.5 percent is fresh water, suitable for agriculture and consumption. Still, that should be ample for humanity if it were uncontaminated and universally available. 
Yet most of the world struggles with serious aqua issues. The World Health Organization estimates that about 1.1 billion people - more than 1 out of every 6 people on the planet - don't have clean drinking water. It's also estimated that in developing countries, the average woman walks nearly four miles each day to fetch water for her family. And officials attribute more than a million deaths per year to lack of access to clean water and poor sanitation caused by water problems. 
At the turn of the millennium, the United Nations set a target to cut in half the number of people without access to clean water or sanitation by 2015. As the years tick by, that target looks more and more difficult to hit. 
To highlight water issues, the United Nations has designated Wednesday as World Water Day. This year it also coincides with the end of a six-day World Water Forum that has brought thousands of people from governments, nonprofit groups, and businesses in more than 100 countries to a conference in Mexico City. 
This World Water Forum seems to be (pardon the expression) a watershed moment for finding solutions. 
In some countries, municipal water systems lose up to 40 percent of their water on the way to households because of leaks in canals and pipes or illegal connections. Government mismanagement has prompted a big push in recent years toward privatization in some parts of the world. 
But turning water supplies over to foreign corporations has also backfired, especially in Latin America, where "water wars" have emerged. After peasant protests, Bolivia sent French company Suez packing for failing to provide promised fresh water and sewage systems. Water privatization protests have raged in Argentina and Uruguay, too. 
The challenge for citizen activists now is to find creative solutions that include watchdogs on whoever provides service. And privatization may still prove effective in other settings. 
Expensive water projects, such as massive dams, need honest vetting to ensure they will be cost-effective. The need for mega- projects will diminish if wasteful practices in farming, which consumes 70 to 90 percent of humanity's water use, can be reduced. Meanwhile, small projects at low cost can have big benefits: Moving taps closer to villages increases school attendance as children no longer have to fetch water. 
Some activists want access to water to be declared a "human right." It's clearly a human need, one that no one should be denied. And it's a precious resource, one that needs our best stewardship.

Ah. The sweet taste of freedom. Journalist Jill Carroll, released Thursday after nearly three months in captivity in Iraq, is savoring it. So are her family, and her colleagues here at the Monitor. But we also know this: freedom doesn't come without commitment. 
As a newspaper, the Monitor is committed to freedom of the press. Information, independently reported, is key to understanding. That principle is exactly what motivated Jill when, on assignment for this newspaper Jan. 7, the freelance journalist was kidnapped in Baghdad, and her translator, Allan Enwiya, killed. 
Jill devoted herself fully to communicating the complex story of Iraq. She learned Arabic. She worked appropriately in Iraq, dressing as a Muslim woman would. 
She is also one of many journalists the world over who prove their commitment to a free media by putting their lives on the line to report from dangerous places. 
With 60 journalists killed in Iraq so far, that country has been the deadliest for the media in the past decade, according to the Committee to Protect Journalists. This is not the first time a reporter working for the Monitor has been taken hostage. 
In 1995, during the Bosnian war, staff writer David Rohde disappeared as he reported on his Pulitzer Prize winning investigation of the massacre at Srebrenica. In 1970, while covering the Vietnam War, Elizabeth Pond was captured in Cambodia by the Viet Cong, North Vietnamese, and Khmer Rouge. Through persistent prayer and effort, both were released. 
That same persistence was absolutely vital to securing Jill's release. As soon as she was captured, many, many people swung into action with tireless commitment. Monitor editors and reporters, along with Jill's family, pursued all possible avenues for assistance. Late at night and early in the morning, from the start of this ordeal until its end, they were aided by US, Iraqi, Jordanian and other government officials, as well as private organizations, such as Reporters Without Borders. 
The Iraqi and Jordanian media also provided vital assistance. Individuals, too, persevered, with countless people praying for Jill every day. 
It takes courage to stand for freedom - for freedom of expression, freedom of religion, freedom of association, and for lives free from oppression and violence. Certainly, it took courage for Jill herself to hold out hope during captivity. 
It took strength for her parents to calmly and resolutely demand her release in countless television interviews, not knowing when, or if, their pleas would reach Jill's captors or pay off. 
And in a region which seems to drink in violence like mother's milk, it took courage for Muslim clerics to go against the grain of radical Islamist thinking and publicly and consistently denounce hostage taking and killing as a means to an end. Where does this courage come from? It can only result from a faith in freedom's enduring value as a God-given right, an ever-present condition that liberates individuals and societies, allowing them to walk on the path toward limitless possibilities. This is what makes hope more than just an empty gesture. 
The wonderful thing about freedom is that the more people experience it, the more committed they become to it. And that is why hope for other hostages in Iraq and elsewhere is not in vain.

Federal and state regulators have been slow off the mark to control an expanding slice of the mortgage business that lures many borrowers into thinking they can afford a home when they can't. After many warnings from Alan Greenspan and others that so-called "exotic" mortgages may be a threat to the housing market - and the economy - the first set of new rules for this type of dangerous debt finally came down Friday. 
Aimed first at banks (the more high-flying mortgage brokers will get their regs later), the federal rules aim to rein in abuses in types of mortgages that have loose standards or are simply too complex for an average person to understand. Such loans go way beyond the usual fixed-rate or traditional adjustable-rate mortgages in their level of riskiness or detail. A Government Accountability Office study released last month found most lenders "did not fully or clearly discuss the risks and the terms of these products." 
More than 30 percent of loans are now exotic, up from 10 percent in 2000. They include "interest only and no down payment" loans or "payment option" mortgages that come with teasing low-interest rates but can later expand into loan obligations greater than the worth of a home. 
While these exotics have helped create near-record homeownership (68.7 percent), the recent weakening of the housing market has led to a rapid rise in foreclosures and delinquencies in payments, mainly among those with such risky mortgages. 
State and federal regulators have been scrambling to come up with better requirements on what a lender must disclose. "Marketing materials for these loans often emphasize their benefits and downplay or omit the risks," Sandra Thompson, director of supervision and consumer protection at the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, told Congress last month. 
A controversial aspect of the new rules - some expected in a few weeks - would require banks and the more than 90,000 mortgage companies to make a credible analysis of a borrower's capacity to repay a loan. In the fierce competition of this industry, many lenders of exotics do not do that scrutiny very well. But the mortgage-broker industry rejects the idea that it can determine if a borrower will falter on payments over the life of a loan. 
Nonetheless, the level of fraud among mortgage brokers doubled last year, with a $1 billion cost to the economy. Many brokers, if caught by state regulators, simply flee to another state. (An interstate remedy for that is in the works.) The industry needs a shake-up and better licensing to improve its professionalism.

</file>

<file= AmE06_B27>

Last December Gabriel Schoenfeld, senior editor of Commentary, sat down to review James Risen's book State of War: The Secret History of the CIA and the Bush Administration, a portion of which had just appeared, to much acclaim and controversy, on page one of the New York Times and would later garner Risen and Eric Lichtblau a Pulitzer Prize. As he read the book Schoenfeld wondered, "Is it legal to publish this kind of stuff?" Risen's explosive revelations about the National Security Agency's domestic surveillance program enraged Schoenfeld, who decided to abandon his review and embark instead on a more ambitious essay about espionage and leaks. In recent months that essay--"Has The New York Times Violated the Espionage Act?," which appeared in the March issue ofCommentary--has taken on a life of its own and has brought its author a certain degree of fame and notoriety. His influence may expand as the Times and other newspapers endure Republican fury and calls for prosecution as a result of their June 22 decision to publish a story revealing a secret government financial tracking program.
In his research into the 1917 Espionage Act and subsequent espionage statutes, Schoenfeld discovered Section 798 of the US Criminal Code, enacted by Congress in 1950, which reads, "Whoever knowingly and willingly communicates, furnishes, transmits or otherwise makes available to an unauthorized person, or publishes...any classified information...concerning the communication intelligence activities of the United States...shall be fined not more than $10,000 or imprisoned not more than ten years, or both." (His italics.) This, Schoenfeld believed, was the "completely unambiguous" smoking gun he needed against Risen and the Times--both of whom, he felt, had "damaged critical intelligence capabilities" and undermined national security with the NSA story. Schoenfeld knew when he wrote the essay that no journalist had ever been prosecuted under Section 798, but his purpose was to stiffen the spine of the Justice Department. "The laws governing what the Times has done are perfectly clear," he concluded. "Will they be enforced?"
Schoenfeld's essay caught the eye of a producer at The NewsHour With Jim Lehrer, who invited him on the show on April 25. "The rest is history," Schoenfeld says. He was subsequently invited to testify twice before Congress: In May and June he appeared before the House Intelligence Committee and the Senate Judiciary Committee, where he more or less summarized the Commentaryessay. Schoenfeld, who has written half a dozen pieces for theTimes since 1990, also appeared on MSNBC's The Abrams Report and was granted space on the op-ed page of the Los Angeles Times.
Some press critics were quick to contest Schoenfeld's arguments. Writing in Slate, Jack Shafer noted that under the logic employed by Commentary, many leading national security reporters could be prosecuted under Section 798, including Bill Gertz of theWashington Times (for a 2000 story titled "Russian Merchant Ships Used in Spying" that relied on CIA and NSA documents), James Bamford (for a 2006 story in The Atlantic on the successful efforts of the NSA to target Islamic militants in Yemen), Bob Woodward (for divulging in his book Plan of Attack that Iraq had "the kind of old-line Soviet coding equipment that NSA knew well and could crack") and Seymour Hersh (who drew heavily on NSA documents for a 2001 story in The New Yorker on the machinations of the Saudi royal family). Shafer cited a dozen other reporters who could conceivably be jailed, including Stephen Hayes of The Weekly Standard.
Other Schoenfeld critics leaped into the fray with a series of letters that appear in the June Commentary. In one letter Steven Aftergood of the Federation of American Scientists takes aim at the sweeping nature of the law and notes that he recently obtained a historical document regarding the NSA budget for 1972--a figure that remains classified. "Should I therefore be prosecuted? Should Commentary be penalized for publishing the information in this letter? That would be absurd." "My view," proclaims Morton Halperin of the Open Society Institute in another letter, is that the Times "may have violated a criminal statute but that its conduct was far from shameful." Thunders Ohio University professor Joe Bernt: "If letting the public know that we have a law-violating President who needs to be impeached violates the law, I only hope the New York Times continues to violate the laws of tyrants."
Is the Times vulnerable to prosecution? On May 21 US Attorney General Alberto Gonzales declared that there is "a possibility" that journalists can be prosecuted for publishing classified information. Most experts doubt that the government would attempt such a maneuver. Says Geoffrey Stone, professor of law at the University of Chicago and author of Perilous Times: Free Speech in Wartime, "The fact is that the US government, in 215 years, has never once prosecuted the press for publishing government secrets." In Stone's view the 1950 law is "clearly unconstitutional. It includes no reference whatever to clear and present danger or any other level of harm to the national security."
Others agree. "While in theory the Times might be vulnerable," notes Boston defense attorney Harvey Silverglate, "there are arguable defenses. And besides, where is the Department of Justice going to get a twelve-citizen jury to unanimously buy the government's view that the Times is a criminal but the Bush Administration is not?" Schoenfeld says he cannot imagine a government prosecution: "Before my essay came out, I would say the chance was zero percent. After the article came out, the odds have risen to .05 percent." Then what did he achieve with the essay? "I hope," he says, "that I set in motion a 'chilling effect,' however slight, when it comes to the publication of sensitive and highly classified counterterrorism programs, the illegal disclosure of which may make it easier for radical Islamists to strike us again."
In recent months Schoenfeld's essay certainly appears to have provided intellectual ammunition for those who would censor and punish the press. His arguments have already been reproduced in the Wall Street Journal,National Review and The New Criterion; by Accuracy in Media; and by pundits like Michael Barone. Fortunately, some top newspaper editors seem to be waking up to the dangers. "I'm not sure journalists fully appreciate the threat confronting us," Times executive editor Bill Keller recently told National Journal, citing "the Times in the eavesdropping case, the Post for its CIA prison stories and everyone else who has tried to look behind the 'war on terror.'"
Critics of the Times will no doubt brandish the Schoenfeld essay in their current offensive against the paper for printing the Swift database story, also by Risen and Lichtblau. What are Keller's thoughts on the piece? "I like to think the American electorate," Keller told The Nation before the Swift controversy erupted, "would not look kindly on the federal government seeking to lock up journalists as spies. Even if you accept at face value the polls on media credibility, I think Americans are proud of having a free press and would find an espionage prosecution to be a chilling governmental overreach."
We are compelled to speak again because the just-announced Republican "compromise" threatens to compromise the rule of law and the laws of God. Torture is a moral and legal issue; it is also a profoundly religious issue, for it degrades the image of God in the tortured and the torturer alike. Our moral compass is swinging wildly. To tolerate, or worse decriminalize, torture jeopardizes the soul of our nation.
If we were not to raise our voices in outrage at this time, the very stones would cry out.
What is the basis of our concern?
We are concerned that the proposed legislation eviscerates the War Crimes Act of 1996. That act makes it a crime for any American to commit "grave violations" of the Geneva Conventions. But the "compromise" just announced amends the War Crimes Act to under cut that and to give the President unilateral authority--unchecked by Congress or the courts--to declare what is a violation of the War Crimes Act. §
The President would then have the power to decriminalize the very prisoner abuse--at Abu Ghraib, Guantánamo, and secret prisons around the world--that rightly has caused American shame and international outrage. Under the legislation now proposed, even the list of permissible forms of interrogation will be kept secret. When reporters asked National Security Advisor Stephen Hadley whether waterboarding was permitted under the agreement, he refused even to answer the question.
We are concerned that the proposed law retroactively decriminalizes violations of the War Crimes Act. This sends a message that our country is offering one hundred percent tolerance for torture. We insist on zero tolerance for torture. But the bill extends tolerance to mercenaries and top government officials. This is highly self-serving. As former CIA general counsel, Jeffrey H. Smith, recently told the § Washington Post regarding accusations of illegal activities by CIA officials, "The fault here is with more senior people who authorized interrogation techniques that amount to torture" and should now be liable, instead of "the officers who carried it out." This legislation would provide such senior officials a "get out of jail free" card.
We are concerned that this legislation removes the right of habeas corpus for those held as illegal combatants. This overturns the Supreme Court's § Rasul decision and strips the courts of their ability to prevent torture and abuse. Habeas corpus cases have been the sole means for challenging the abuse of those held at Guantánamo.
We are concerned that the so-called compromise will allow the use of evidence coerced through cruel and abusive treatment. Experience has shown that such provisions are an inducement to torture. §
We are concerned that the bill allows the President to declare any foreigner, anywhere, an "illegal enemy combatant" and then detain them forever without trial. Is this what the rule of law has come to for our country? §
We are concerned that the bill, in spite of claims that it preserves the Geneva Conventions, in fact does nothing to prevent the reinterpretation of those Conventions at will. Thus, it will invite other countries to do the same--as past and present military leaders warned when they opposed the President's initial version of the bill. §
Former Secretary of State and head of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Colin Powell, recently warned that "The world is beginning to doubt the moral basis of our fight against terrorism," and that "to redefine Common Article 3" of the Geneva Conventions "would add to those doubts." We are concerned that the proposed legislation, far from showing U.S. commitment to the Geneva Conventions, will only intensify those doubts.
We are concerned that this proposal is deliberately designed to undermine the efforts of the Supreme Court in the §Rasul and Hamdan cases to assert the basic democratic Constitutional principle that the rule of law applies to the President and the executive branch.
We are concerned that President Bush may gut the remaining limitations in this act, just as he did to those in the previous McCain torture law, by issuing a Presidential signing statement. §
Given that the President has said there are currently no prisoners in the special CIA interrogation program, we are uncertain of the urgency in passing this legislation right now. We fear that the urgency stems from the upcoming mid-term elections, with the possibility of the Democrats gaining control of the House or Senate and initiating war crimes hearings. This legislation seems not to be about protecting our military personnel or even US citizens; rather, it appears to be designed to protect the leaders at the top of the chain of command who have tolerated, promoted, and justified torture.
Our own sense of urgency arises from a desire to protect the soul and integrity of our nation. Will we be a nation that abides by our own Constitution and upholds international law? Will we be a nation that is "under God" with justice for all? Or will we become a nation that punishes those who follow the orders while exonerating those who give them?

</file>

