<file= AmE06_E01>

A New Goal Standard
Capitals wing Alexander Ovechkin conjured up a score that left even the Great One awestruck and lifted the league with his gung-ho spirit

Goal: Alexander Ovechkin. Assists: Penn and Teller. � This is a halting attempt to describe the nearly indescribable six seconds of astonishing, mind-stretching hockey that will always live in online video and highlight reels: the Impossible Goal. Midway through the third period last Jan. 16 in Phoenix, Ovechkin, the blessed Capitals left wing, gathered the puck at the red line and burst down the right flank. Four strides over the blue line, retreating Coyotes defenseman Paul Mara checked him, but Ovechkin made an inside move that took him partway around Mara and pitched Ovechkin at a 45-degree angle toward the left corner of the rink. Stumbling because of Mara's persistent checking, Ovechkin, now perhaps 10 feet from goaltender Brian Boucher's net, at the lower edge of the left face-off circle, corkscrewed himself onto his back, took his left hand off his stick, cradled the puck with the hook of his blade and then, over his shoulder, like a twirler manipulating her baton on homecoming day, shoved the puck into the short side of the net past a stunned Boucher. So in summary, Ovechkin's 32nd goal, one of 52 he scored during his rookie season, was a prone, one-handed, upside-down, over-the-shoulder shot. And if all that fails to capture the Impossible Goal, try this: abracadabra.
"I don't know what was more amazing," says Phoenix coach Wayne Gretzky, who, like Ovechkin, could not resist glancing up at the Glendale Arena video board for another look that afternoon. "That goal or him blowing a kiss to me that day.... That goal was one of the prettiest I've ever seen. Guy Lafleur might have scored a few in the 1970s that were pretty remarkable, and maybe I scored a few nice ones, but not like that."
This was the year that the NHL, fresh off the lockout, fell through a rabbit hole and mystically came out the other side: Alex in Wonderland. Ovechkin and Penguins rookie Sidney Crosby, the would-be Magic and Bird of the missing-teeth set, took their marginalized sport and varnished it with a thick layer of conspicuous cool. In another era their simultaneous arrival might have laid the foundation for a two-decade Rocket Richard versus Gordie Howe or Gretzky versus Mario Lemieux--type rivalry, but Ovechkin and Crosby are as much allies as foes, cornerstones of a revitalized league that is trying to escape its niche. The egalitarian, salary-capped world that has replaced the era of star-laden circus teams might have damaged the NHL on a metaphysical level--as The Grand Inquisitor notes in Gilbert and Sullivan's The Gondoliers: When everyone is somebody, then no one's anybody--but Ovechkin and Crosby proved ideal counterweights in 2006, incandescent players for a game that had slogged through a decade of drudgery.
"Know what I like about them?" says Gretzky. "These guys only talk about how great it is to play in the NHL. You never hear them saying, 'Ah, this is no good,' or, 'Ah, I don't like that.' This league did go through a little time where some guys were like, 'Why am I here? [The NHL is] lucky to have me.' That's kind of been weeded out, especially with these kids. They strike me as two kids who feel lucky to be here. That's their attitude, and if these guys are the mainstays, everybody else will follow their lead. I love watching them because they play hard every game."
The NHL, like a proud parent bursting to brag about its precocious children, will be happy to tell you how much better its league is now. Got a minute? Or, better yet, got six seconds and Internet access? When the clip of the Impossible Goal winds down and you've witnessed the first minor miracle of your lifetime, the only thing you can do is genuflect and click again and again--world without end boards, amen.
The Class of '06
SI's picks for the year-end awards range from a record-setting back to a rookie wideout who caught fire in New Orleans 
IT'S HARD to remember a year with so many deserving candidates for the NFL's major year-end awards. Only two categories - Coach of the Year and Most Valuable Player - have clear favorites; the rest of the picks are sure to provoke heated debate. SI polled a select group of players, coaches, executives and scouts to determine the consensus picks in the major categories, which are presented here, along with a less-obvious candidate worthy of consideration and SI's choice.
OFFENSIVE ROOKIE
Consensus 
Marques Colston, WR, Saints. Over the last few weeks Colston hasn't created as much buzz as Vince Young, Reggie Bush or Maurice Jones-Drew, but he's the only offensive rookie who's had a continuous impact since Week 1. The seventh-rounder out of Hofstra had four catches for 49 yards and a touchdown in his debut, a 19--14 win at Cleveland that suggested that these Saints might defy the experts' low preseason expectations for them. Colston has become a clutch target for quarterback Drew Brees in the NFL's top-ranked offense while topping all rookie wideouts with 66 receptions, 1,001 yards and seven touchdowns despite missing two games with a high ankle sprain. "He was one of the top receivers in the league, if not the best, before he got hurt," says one AFC scout. "He has made that offense better, and that's not something you see too often from a rookie, especially an unheard-of one." The seventh-rounder had a slight edge over first-round teammate Bush in SI's poll.
Consider 
Marcus McNeill, LT, Chargers. This second-rounder moved into the lineup after preseason foot surgery sidelined Roman Oben and has played like a veteran, plowing a path for LaDainian Tomlinson and guarding quarterback Philip Rivers's blind side. "I vote for guys who I've played against and who have done well," says Bengals defensive end Bryan Robinson. "He's done a great job playing left tackle as a rookie. That's tough."
SI's pick 
Colston 
DEFENSIVE ROOKIE
Consensus 
DeMeco Ryans, MLB, Texans. Houston thought so highly of this second-rounder that the team cut starting middle linebacker Sam Cowart in training camp and moved Ryans from the weak side to the middle. The result: The 6'2", 236-pound Ryans leads the NFL in solo tackles (112). "This kid makes plays all over the field, and that's not bad for someone viewed as too short to play in the NFL," says one AFC personnel man. "He doesn't have any apparent weaknesses, and he plays hard on every down. He's just as good against the run as he is against the pass."
Consider 
Devin Hester, CB/KR/PR, Bears. He plays some corner on the league's No. 1 defense, but because his major contributions have come on special teams (six returns for TDs), he misses out on this award.

SI's pick 
Ryans 
COMEBACK PLAYER
Consensus 
Drew Brees, QB, Saints. No surprise here, given what Brees has done for the Saints. Despite surgery last January to repair a torn labrum and partially torn rotator cuff in his right shoulder (which prompted the Chargers to let him go through free agency), the six-year veteran is having his best NFL season, with 4,240 yards, 25 touchdowns and only 11 interceptions. "Nobody gave him a chance," says Chargers linebacker Donnie Edwards. "They said he wouldn't be able to throw the ball over 30 yards. They said he wouldn't play again. For him to come back like that is awesome."
Consider 
Kellen Winslow, TE, Browns. After playing just two games in his first two seasons because of injury, the former first-round pick showed what he can do when healthy, with 76 receptions for 755 yards and three touchdowns.
SI's pick 
Chad Pennington, QB, Jets. Pennington is doubly deserving, since this is the second straight year he's come off rotator cuff surgery. At the end of the '05 season he faced serious questions about his future but responded by winning a heated quarterback competition in training camp and then leading the surprising Jets into playoff contention. With 2,958 passing yards, 15 touchdowns, 16 interceptions, the seventh-year vet doesn't have Brees's stats, but he also doesn't have the offensive weapons New Orleans has, and he inspired the Jets with his resilience.
DEFENSIVE PLAYER
Consensus 
Jason Taylor, DE, Dolphins. No defender had more of an impact week to week than the Dolphins' 10-year veteran. He's always been a dominant pass rusher (92 � sacks entering 2006), but this season he ramped up his all-around play (nine forced fumbles, two interceptions - both returned for touchdowns - and 12� sacks). "Few players have the presence of mind to turn good plays into great plays, but Jason does that on a routine basis," says Dolphins defensive end Kevin Carter. "Week in and week out, not only is he getting the sack, but he's causing the fumble, getting the interception or scoring a touchdown. He's turning good plays into great plays all the time."
Consider 
Shawne Merriman, OLB, Chargers. A four-game suspension for violating the league's policy on banned substances hurt his chances here, but his on-field production didn't drop after his return on Dec. 3. He's tied with Taylor and Green Bay's Aaron Kampman for second in the league with 12� sacks, spearheading a defense that leads the league in that category, with 54. "Merriman can change the game for his team," says one NFC executive. "You can argue that some of his sacks are scheme sacks - or that he gets a lot of them by going against backs - but he still has to get them."
SI's pick 
Taylor
OFFENSIVE PLAYER/MVP

Consensus 
LaDainian Tomlinson, RB, Chargers. It's impossible to argue against a player who set the NFL record for touchdowns (31) and points (186) with two games remaining. If those achievements aren't enough to sell Tomlinson, consider that he's the heart of the Chargers, and his presence has made the life of quarterback Rivers, a first-year starter, much easier. "He's such a threat, and he's so consistent," says Steelers offensive coordinator Ken Whisenhunt. "He shows up for every game. He's a threat to take it to the house in the run game, and he's also a good blocker and a great receiver. There are so many things he can do."
Consider 
Brees was the pick of a handful of insiders in the SI poll.
SI's pick 
Tomlinson 
COACH
Consensus 
Sean Payton, Saints. New Orleans' first-year coach changed the mind-set on a team that mostly floundered for six seasons under Jim Haslett. The former Cowboys assistant consistently inspired and prepared his players while breaking in a new quarterback and overhauling the defense. At 9--5 the Saints aren't just a feel-good story - under Payton, they're a threat to reach the Super Bowl. Says Giants All-Pro running back Tiki Barber, " Payton has been masterful at utilizing the strengths of his players and bringing a contender to a city that desperately needed a hero." The only other coaches named in SI's poll were Marty Schottenheimer of the Chargers and Eric Mangini of the Jets; each got one vote.
Consider 
Jeff Fisher, Titans. Despite a dearth of veteran playmakers, the Titans have won seven of nine games since an 0--5 start and are, remarkably, in playoff contention. Fisher's deft touch has helped quarterback Young blossom.
SI's pick 
Payton 

Too Good To Be True
Keeping track of all the miscreants in sports--from liquored-up trees to larcenous wideouts--is a dirty job, and nobody has to do it. But Steve Rushin did it anyway 

THE MOON NEVER SETS ON THE BRITISH UMPIRE
Line judges at Wimbledon split 60 pairs of trousers while bending over during matches.
PUTTING THE STICK'EM BACK IN "STICK'EM UP"
Former Florida State receiver Fred Rouse, charged with burglarizing the house of an ex-teammate, allegedly left a wide receiver's glove with his uniform number on it at the scene.
WINNING ISN'T EVERYTHING, OR EVEN ANYTHING

</file>

<file= AmE06_E02>

Schima is an attractive genus of evergreen trees from subtropical and warm-temperate regions of Asia. A member of the tea family (Theaceae), schima is closely related to Gordonia, a genus found in Southeast Asia and the southeastern corner of the United States. Schima occurs at elevations of 660 to 8,250 feet (200 to 2,500 meters), from Nepal and India eastward to Taiwan. Most become quite tall-some reportedly exceeding 130 feet (forty meters). They have showy, fragrant white flowers, one and a half to two and a half inches (four to six centimeters) in diameter, with five petals and numerous yellow stamens. The flowers appear on short pedicels in the terminal axils of the spring growth and are accompanied by a flush of delicate, shiny red new leaves. Once considered to comprise up to fifteen species, it is now thought to be only one variable species, according to a revision of the genus published in 1952 by Bloembergen, who placed them all under S. wallichii (DC) Korth.
I have seen and collected seeds from schima in the wild in four different areas. The first was a single tree in western Sichuan Province, China, on Erlang Shan at 5,990 feet (1,820 meters) elevation, found in October 1991. A narrow tree, about twenty-three feet (seven meters) tall, it was growing among dense regenerating vegetation. The steep mountainsides had previously been logged and were now a "jungle" of competing trees and shrubs. The few seed capsules, found near the top of the tree, were brown, globular, about three-fifths inch (1.5 centimeters) across, and similar to those of camellias. Growing nearby were trees of Carpinus fangiana, Pterostyrax psilophylla, and Idesia polycarpa, along with a number of rhododendrons, hydrangeas, roses, clethras, and viburnums. I have been to Erlang Shan several times, finding it to be wet and almost always raining. The Erlang Shan typically receives over four feet (1.2 meters) of rain during the summer months, with occasional rain throughout the rest of the year.
The next time that I collected schima was in October 1992, while returning from the town of Muli, west of Xichang in southwestern Sichuan Province at 7,700 feet (2,330 meters) elevation. Again, there was only a single narrow tree in an area of dense regenerating trees and shrubs. Like Erlang Shan, this area also receives heavy summer rainfall, although the annual total is less.
In Nepal, I again collected schima in October 1993. Called chilaune by the locals, it is used in construction and for medicine. The leaves and roots are used for fevers and the bark is sometimes used for intestinal worms. The trees were growing at an elevation of 5,250 feet (1,590 meters), just west of Nargarkot. Here they were plentiful, dominating the north-facing mountainsides along with Pinus roxburghii, Castanopsis indica, and Alnus nepalensis. They had rounded crowns and were from twenty-three to thirty-three feet (seven to ten meters) tall.
My final collection of schima was in Taiwan in October 2004. Here they were abundant and tall, with some reaching one hundred feet (thirty meters) in height. Ignoring Bloembergen's revision, local botanists consider this one to be Schima superba Gard. & Champ. They were growing on a steep northwest-facing mountainside with Acer serrulatum, Alnus formosana, Abies kawakamii, and Tsuga chinensis var. formosana at an elevation of 7,100 feet (2,150 meters) in Taroko National Park. Locally, the wood is used in construction; the bark serves as a fish poison.
At Quarryhill Botanical Garden
Although schima's bark is said to be a skin irritant, I suffered no harm from climbing any of these trees to gather the seed capsules. Of the four collections, only the first two have germinated for us at Quarryhill Botanical Garden. (It is too soon to know if the final collection will germinate, as it was only sown in December 2004.) From the 1991 collection, we now have two vigorous trees, one over thirty feet (ten meters) tall and the other twenty-three feet (seven meters) tall; both are twenty feet (six meters) wide, after only twelve years in the ground. Three others that were planted around the same time have succumbed to oak root fungus (Armillaria mellea). All of these seedlings were planted within a few months of each other in 1992. The survivors are both in full sun on a gentle west-facing slope. We also have one young tree started from a cutting, planted in 2001; it is eight feet (2.5 meters) high. All three trees have developed as low-branching, single-trunked trees and have dark green leaves, seven by two inches (eighteen by five centimeters), with serrate leaf margins. They begin flowering in September and have two large bracts enclosing the bud.
From the 1992 collection, we have two plants in the garden. The first was planted in the summer of 1994 and has grown more slowly than those from the previous collection, reaching a height of only twelve feet (3.5 meters) in ten years. The other, begun as a cutting of the first, was planted in 2001. They are both developing into rounded shrubs, almost as wide as they are tall, with considerably smaller flowers than the trees from the 1991 collection. Their bluish leaves are roughly half the size of those on the older plants, and they have entire margins. They start flowering in July and have much smaller bracts surrounding the bud. All of our trees, from both collections, have taken five years to flower in our garden.
A Challenging Nomenclature
Curious about the reasoning behind the lumping of all species of Schima under one name, I found several peculiar inconsistencies in the available literature. In leaf shape, our two collections of schima appear to match two of the line drawings in Krussmann's Manual of Cultivated Broad-Leaved Trees & Shrubs. Krussmann ignores Bloembergen's 1952 revision and states that there are fifteen species. He describes three of them: S. argentea Pritzel., S. khasiana Dyer., and S. wallichii (DC) Korth. The three accompanying line drawings, however, are of S. argentea, S. wallichii, and S. noronhae. Leaves on our 1992 collections are similar to the drawing of S. argentea, whereas those from the 1991 collection are similar to the drawing of S. noronhae. Krussmann's line drawings are actually taken from the Iconographia Cormophytorum Sinicorum Tomas II. Despite a drawing labeled S. noronhae, the text implies that S. noronhae should be S. wallichii.
The descriptions of two species of Schima in Bean's Trees & Shrubs Hardy In The British Isles seem to match our trees. Those from our 1991 collection appear to be what they call S. khasiana; those from the 1992 collection appear to be what they call S. argentea. Bean does mention the revision, however, and goes on to state that S. khasiana should be known as S. wallichii subsp. wallichii var. khasiana, and that S. argentea should be known as S. wallichii subsp. noronhae var. superba.
Several of the horticultural references note that the flower buds are red or scarlet. All of our schima have creamy white buds.
Some references report flowering in April, May, and/or June. Frank Kingdon-Ward, in Plant Hunter in Manipur, mentions seeing schima "covered in June with large Camellia-like fragrant creamy white flowers with a large central brush of orange stamens." Roy Lancaster, in A Plantsman in Nepal, writes "the schima with its attractive white fragrant camellia-like flowers in April to June make a magnificent tree ... in the eastern Himalaya." In the Trees and Shrubs of Nepal and the Himalayas, one reads "The flowers, which appear in May..." Lastly, according to Flowers of the Himalaya, Schima wallichii flowers in May-June.
Ours, however, flower in late summer and into the fall. The Manual of Cultivated Broad-Leaved Trees & Shrubs says that Schima argentea blooms in August, S. khasiana blooms in September-October, and S. wallichii blooms in the late summer. The Hillier Manual of Trees & Shrubs, despite mentioning Bloembergen's revision, describes four species, with S. argentea blooming in late summer, S. khasiana blooming in September and October, S. noronhae blooming in late summer and autumn, and S. wallichii blooming in late summer. In the paragraph above, all of the descriptions were of plants observed in the wild; those referred to as blooming in the late summer and autumn were all cultivated trees. Perhaps this variation in flowering season is an anomaly of cultivation in Western Europe and North America. I did, however, see a few lingering flowers on naturally occurring plants in Taiwan last October.
Cultivation
In discussing the cultivation of schima, The New Royal Horticultural Society Dictionary of Gardening mentions that they should be protected from frost when young and that, if grown under glass, the temperature should not drop below 37-41° F (3-5° C). Ours were planted out while quite young (one to two years from seed) and have experienced numerous frosts each winter with temperatures as low as 18° F (-8° C). Both were less than twelve inches (thirty centimeters) high in four-inch pots when planted in the ground; none have suffered from our frequent frosts.
Clearly, our experience has shown that Schima have promise as ornamental trees in California and perhaps in milder areas along the West Coast. In addition to showing no frost damage in Sonoma County (Sunset zone 14/15), they have withstood our intense summer sun with no hint of sunburn. To date, there are no signs of insect damage either. Unlike some introduced exotics, they have not reseeded in our garden, nor have they suckered. They are also resistant to fire. Though not heavy bloomers, they are in flower at a time when little else is. Their lush evergreen leaves have a cooling effect in summer and contrast nicely with winter's starkness. Other than their occasional susceptibility to oak root fungus, which I believe can be ameliorated through proper culture, they seem to be ideal ornamental trees. The fragrant white flowers of this little known tree could easily compliment many gardens.

Rare in the wilds of China, Emmenopterys henryi may be even rarer in cultivation. Yet this interesting tree continues to attract attention, not necessarily because of its rarity but because of a statement by the indefatigable plant hunter, Ernest H Wilson. Trained at the Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew, Wilson first went to China in search of ornamental plants in 1899. Sent by the Veitch & Sons firm, the Royal Exotic Nursery, to find the dove tree (Davidia involucrata), he spent the better part of a decade collecting and introducing from China a wealth of plants new to cultivation in Europe and North America. His well-publicized efforts gained him the nickname of "Chinese" Wilson.
First introduced by Wilson in 1907, Emmenopterys henryi owes its fame to Wilson's description: "one of the most strikingly beautiful trees of Chinese forests." Because of his stature in the world of horticulture, this comment drew a great deal of attention. However, the excitement slowly drifted into frustration, as the trees in cultivation refused to bloom. The first tree in Britain to flower, in 1987 at Wakehurst Place, was more than seventy-five years old; the first in Europe, also decades old, was at Villa Taranto on Italy's Lake Maggiore, in 1971. The Wakehurst Place tree has not flowered since; nor have any others in Britain. The first to flower in North America was in the collection of Dr Allen Hirsh of Silver Spring, Maryland, in 1994; it originated from seed germinated at the Arnold Arboretum in 1979. Since then, a number of trees in the southeastern US have begun blooming.
Remarkably, two six-year-old trees have now flowered at Quarryhill Botanical Garden in Sonoma County, California. As far as we know, these are the first to flower in western North America and may be the youngest ever to flower in cultivation. Our trees grew from seed collected during Quarryhill's expedition to eastern Sichuan Province in 1996, in partnership with the Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew and the Howick Arboretum. The seeds germinated in the following year; one was planted in the ground in 1998, the other in 2000.

</file>

<file= AmE06_E03>

Thales touts TopDeck win on Sikorsky S-76D 

Thales is in Dallas celebrating the first selection by a U.S. helicopter OEM of its TopDeck integrated avionics system, on the Sikorsky S-76D.

The French avionics house has achieved a significant position on other manufacturers' product lines as well. This week, prominent at its Booth No. 1269 on the Heli-Expo'06 exhibit floor is a dynamic simulation of the latest TopDeck architecture. 

Centered around four 6- by 8-inch flat-panel liquid crystal displays (LCD), the mockup represents the avionics Thales is supplying for the AgustaWestland A109 LUH (light utility helicopter) program. Phil Naybour, v-p for Thales' helicopter business, said yesterday at a press briefing that this display closely resembles how the final S-76D panel is likely to look.

The glass cockpit for the S-76D is derived from the modular avionics developed by Thales for the Airbus A380 airliner, with the 8- by 10-inch A380 EFIS display panels scaled down to fit a helicopter front office. 

As on the A380, track ball technology is the man-machine interface with the TopDeck interactive digital moving map. The suite also includes the first Thales integrated electronic standby instrument dedicated to a helicopter application. The 3-ATI unit is said to be compatible with all new-generation helicopter cockpits as well as being suitable for retrofit to older rotorcraft.

Naybour said the system interfaces for the S-76D TopDeck suite are not yet finalized, but he emphasized that the system's open architecture can accommodate a variety of display formats such as synthetic vision and mission-specific inputs. He added that the final avionics configuration is being developed to coincide with first S-76D deliveries, slated for November 2008.
A bright light for your helo
An Australian company has developed a new searchlight that can illuminate a greater area from a longer distance, yet which is claimed to offer significant weight and cost advantages over the current industry standard. It is being launched here at Heli-Expo (Booth 4002).

The TrakkaBeam A800 tactical searchlight from VectorBeam Technologies is also fitted with a filter wheel that allows the crew to switch from ultraviolet, through visible spectrum in several colors to high (covert) infrared light. In practical terms, a law-enforcement helicopter can surreptitiously track a target using IR from a standoff height of, say, 2,000 feet, and then switch to brilliant visible light to flood it in for the capture phase.

VectorBeam executive Peter Muhlrad said the A800, which weighs less than 18 pounds and costs $24,000, also offers a far wider beam than conventional lamps. "TrakkaBeam uses a Xenon lamp and the energy is more evenly dispersed throughout the entire target plane - even at the edges. More usable energy means fewer lost targets." 

TrakkaBeam is mounted on a two-axis stabilized gimbal. It is undergoing DO160 environmental certification and completes trials with Sweden's Stockholm police force this week. Muhlrad said initial feedback about the searchlight has been "very encouraging."

FAA changes landing distance rules for commercial operators
After a Southwest Airlines Boeing 737-700 ran off a snowy runway while landing at Chicago Midway Airport on December 8 last year, the FAA launched an internal audit of factors related to that accident. One result of that audit is a new FAA policy that imposes mandatory 15-percent landing distance safety margins on Part 91K (fractional), 125, 121 and 135 jet operators. The rule was published in the Federal Register on June 7.

The new requirement is simple: no operator to which the policy applies is allowed to land on any runway without 15 percent more runway available than the actual landing distance. If weather conditions change en route, pilots will have to recalculate the actual landing distance needed, based on runway conditions and use of available equipment such as thrust reversers and spoilers, add 15 percent to that and determine if the destination runway is long enough. If not, they will have to find a suitable runway.

While the NTSB had not posted anything more than a brief preliminary report on the Southwest accident on its Web site, it did address the issue in a safety recommendation dated January 27. The flight crew's calculation of runway needed to land, using the airline's operational performance computer, showed that using the WET-FAIR runway braking condition parameter yielded a margin of 560 feet. In other words, if the condition of the runway actually matched the WET-FAIR parameter, then the pilots should have been able to come to a complete stop with 560 feet of runway remaining.

"During post-accident interviews," the NTSB recommendation letter stated, "the flight crewmembers told Safety Board investigators that they considered 560 feet to be an acceptable safety margin and, therefore, decided to execute the landing."

The NTSB didn't take issue with the remaining runway length but criticized the FAA for allowing Southwest Airlines to consider thrust-reverser credit when determining landing distance in that model 737. 

"The Safety Board is concerned that the landing distance safety margin is significantly reduced on a contaminated runway when the reverse thrust credit is allowed in landing stopping distance calculations. As a result, a single event, the delayed deployment of the thrust reversers [the NTSB said the flight crew waited 18 seconds after touchdown to deploy the reversers], can lead to an unsafe condition, as it did in this accident. The Safety Board concludes that the safety margin must be restored to those airplanes for which the reverse thrust credit is currently allowed in landing performance calculations."

Most business jet operators don't recognize thrust reverser credit when landing on contaminated runways, but the FAA's new policy accepts that a variety of factors and equipment can be considered when calculating landing distance. Once that distance is calculated, the policy also requires adding the 15-percent safety margin, which probably would not have been obtainable in the Southwest Airlines case at Midway. (The runway used, 31C, is 6,522 feet long. Subtract 560 feet [the landing distance for the WET-FAIR wet-fair parameter] and that leaves 5,962 feet or a 9-percent margin. Add 15 percent - 894 feet - and the total runway length with the new margin is 6,856. Would 334 extra feet have made a difference in this accident?)

The FAA requirements in the new policy are as follows: No later than Sept. 1, 2006, jet operators will be required to have procedures in place to ensure that a full-stop landing, with at least a 15-percent safety margin beyond the actual landing distance, can be made on the runway to be used, in the conditions existing at the time of arrival, and with the deceleration means and airplane configuration that will be used.

"This assessment must take into account the meteorological conditions affecting landing performance (airport pressure altitude, wind velocity, wind direction and so on), surface condition of the runway to be used for landing, the approach speed, airplane weight and configuration and planned use of airplane ground deceleration devices. Turbojet operators will be required to ensure that flight crews comply with the operator's approved procedures. In other words, absent an emergency, after the flight crew makes this assessment using the air carrier's FAA-approved procedures, if at least the 15-percent safety margin is not available, the pilot may not land the aircraft."

The formal requirement for this new policy will come in OpSpec/MSpec C082, which will be available July 20. Operators must have procedures in place for complying with the new OpSpec/ MSpec by September 1, and the FAA expects all affected operators will be in compliance by October 1.

Both the National Air Transportation Association (NATA) and NBAA labeled the FAA's release of the safety margin policy a quasi-rulemaking effort, noting that it was not subject to ordinary public comment and rule-drafting procedures.

"This proposal," NBAA stated, "exceeds current regulations in place concerning landing procedures, and NBAA believes that, like all new proposals, this one should be subject to the time-tested federal rulemaking process for aviation regulations."

NBAA also believes the policy is too narrowly focused. "By its nature, the proposal suggests that only one factor -  runway landing distance - matters in aircraft landings. In fact, a whole host of factors are involved, including pilot judgment, aircraft weight and other aspects of landing." Although NBAA didn't comment on the Southwest accident, some of the "host of factors" presumably could include proper use of thrust reversers and correct application of contaminated runway braking information, an issue the NTSB also raised.

"The FAA's notice establishes a new regulatory requirement," NATA explained, "bypassing the required rulemaking process, and is therefore unacceptable. The notice itself states that this is a new requirement, yet the FAA does not adequately explain why formal rulemaking was not conducted."

NATA is more concerned about the FAA's cavalier use of OpSpecs/MSpecs to impose new operational requirements. "The FAA attempts to sell this notice as 'clarification' of Parts 135.77, 125.351, 91.3 and 91.1009, which place responsibility for the safe operation of the flight jointly with the operator, pilot-in-command and dispatcher. The association submits that funneling new requirements through by claiming 'clarification' of these broadly worded regulations is an abusive interpretation of the regulations. The regulations cited by the FAA are general regulations intended to ensure that in all activities the aircraft is operated in a safe manner. They were not created to be used as an excuse for the FAA to impose specific requirements at any time, so that the agency can avoid the rigors of formal rulemaking."

The FAR Part 91K and 135 regulation permitting operators of large transport-category airplanes to fly into airports where landing weight allows a full stop landing within 80 percent of available runway length shouldn't be a factor in the safety-margin policy. If an airplane needs the full 80 percent of the available runway length, this still works out to be less than the amount required by the 15-percent margin policy.

For example, on Chicago Midway's 6,522-foot-long Runway 31C, the 80-percent rule requires a full stop before reaching 5,217 feet. If 5,217 feet is the actual landing distance, adding 15 percent to that brings the required runway length to 6,000 feet, significantly less than the runway's total length.

Why the FAA Believes the Landing Distance Safety Margin is Necessary
The FAA listed reasons why it believes that the 15-percent landing distance safety margin policy is needed:

• The agency surveyed operators' manuals (not the aircraft flight manual) and found that approximately 50 percent of operators don't have policies for assessing whether there is enough landing distance at the destination at time of arrival, even when conditions (weather, airplane configuration, runway condition) change en route.
• Not all operators that calculate landing distance have procedures that account for conditions that are worse 
than anticipated.
• Not all operators that assess landing distance apply a safety margin; those that do aren't consistent about increasing that margin as conditions worsen. In other words, not all operators calculate the margin using a percentage, which automatically increases the required distance as the needed runway length increases.
• Some operators use contaminated-runway performance data that is not as conservative as that provided by the airplane manufacturer or is not current.
• Operators don't always understand the correct application of reverse-thrust credit and don't apply it uniformly.
• Landing-distance data in aircraft flight manuals is developed by test pilots flying rigorously controlled flight scenarios such as touching down at high sink rates and approach angles of -3.5 degrees "to minimize the airborne portion of the landing distance," the FAA explained. "Therefore, the landing distances determined under section 25.125 [certification rules] are shorter than the landing distances achieved in normal operations."
• The numbers provided for wet and contaminated landing distance are calculated based on dry runway performance. "Therefore, the wet and contaminated runway data may not represent performance that is achieved in normal operations." Because the regulations don't specify a safety margin, this is left to the judgment of the operator and flight crew.
• Landing distance information is not provided in a standard format from manufacturer to manufacturer.

</file>

<file= AmE06_E04>

The middle-aged man on the table today was crushed in a construction-site accident. Damage to internal organs ruled out using blood-thinning drugs because they could cause bleeding and death.
With the procedure finished, the man is wheeled out and replaced by a young woman arriving from the intensive-care unit. She is recovering from a bad auto accident and lies face-up on the table, moving fitfully. Hemorrhage from her head injuries means that she can't be given blood thinners. Cho and Todd Getzen, a radiology fellow, go to work. A drape covers the patient's body except for a small patch at her groin, which Cho swabs with an antiseptic wash before injecting a local anesthetic. This badly injured woman is unconscious, but in most cases the procedure can be done with the patient fully awake.
Cho inserts a needle and finds the woman's femoral vein. He withdraws the syringe, leaving the needle, and then passes a wire through the needle's hollow core. The wire serves to guide a dilator into the vein, widening the opening for the eventual passage of the filter. A nick with a scalpel is all that's needed to create an opening through which the dilator can get into the body. There's only a tiny amount of bleeding. This "Seldinger technique," named after its Swedish inventor, allows doctors to place catheters, stents, and filters in the circulatory system with just a local anesthetic and without the invasive surgery that was once mandatory.
"We have patients with the device who've gone back to...playing football, we've had fighter pilots taking huge G stresses."
Cho places a second, stiffer guide wire into the vein and, guided by the X-ray image onscreen, slides it all the way into the vena cava. Now the patient is ready for the filter. An injection of contrast dye lets Cho and Getzen see exactly where blood flow from the kidney joins the vena cava. This is the precise point where the filter's tip needs to go. Cho carefully slides the sheathed filter along the guide wire and up the vein, stopping after about 10 seconds. As viewed on the screen, the filter, furled like an umbrella, emerges from the sheath. Cho operates a trigger device, and the filter instantly springs open, the tiny hooks securing it to the vessel walls. Then Cho pulls out the sheath and guide wire, Getzen places a bandage over the needle puncture, and they're done. The whole procedure has taken less than 10 minutes. With the filter in place, the young woman's odds of developing a pulmonary embolism are now smaller than 1 in 20.
Pulmonary embolism is a fact of life for trauma surgeons and intensive-care-unit doctors because an immobile patient will almost always develop some kind of clot. The nineteenth-century German pathologist Rudolf Virchow was the first to figure out why: Damage to the blood-vessel wall results in a state of hypercoagulability, or elevated tendency to clot. Then the lack of movement adds to the risk of clots and venous thrombosis - clotting in the veins, usually in the legs. Clots that sit in the vein can break loose and head downstream. The result: pulmonary embolisms that are fatal 30 percent of the time if left untreated.
Just sitting still for a few hours can cause clots. Cho recalls the case of a woman who flew from the Philippines to Canada, collapsed in the airplane before arrival, and was rushed to the hospital. "She had massive PE and was dying on the table," says Cho. "She needed resuscitation twice." Doctors broke up the clot in her lungs with drugs and dislodged it with a catheter, and Cho placed a filter. The woman survived - barely.
Besides its suddenness, what makes pulmonary embolism so dangerous is that it has few symptoms, and those are ambiguous. Shortness of breath and mild chest pain signal pulmonary embolism, but they could just as easily mean pneumonia.
Mark Cipolle, a trauma surgeon in Allentown, Pennsylvania, has seen hundreds of pulmonary embolisms, but his own PE caught him completely by surprise. A few years ago he was in a rollover auto accident and fractured a vertebra in his neck. Lucky to escape without paralysis, he was sent home in a neck collar and mostly sat around for three days. Then he developed a clot. "I almost died," he recalls. "I got delirious from lack of oxygen to my brain."
A friend rushed him to the hospital. Because he had bleeding in an eye from the rollover accident, he couldn't receive a blood thinner. So Mark Cipolle, who had collaborated with Lazar Greenfield on several filter-research projects, got his own Greenfield filter. That prevented more clots from piling onto the original clot in the lung and may have saved his life.
Once the Greenfield filter is in, it stays in for life (though other filters designed to do the same job are removable). The vast majority of patients never have to think about it again. Over time the inner vessel wall spreads over the filter's hooks, making the filter almost part of the body. Clots collecting in the filter's conical nose almost always dissolve amid the continuous flow of blood, which has natural clot-dissolving properties.
"We don't limit the activities of any patient who's had a filter," says Greenfield. "We have patients with the device who've gone back to very active lifestyles. They've gone back to playing football, we've had fighter pilots taking huge G stresses ...  . We've even said a boxer could go back to boxing, but the boxing commission didn't think too highly of that."
The filter is remarkably durable and stable, with only a few cases of broken filters reported. Yet it's flexible enough to fold tightly into its narrow sheath for easy delivery. In conceiving and perfecting it, the skills and personalities of its two inventors, Greenfield and Kimmell, meshed well. They had worked together on two devices prior to the filter, one of them a suction cup mounted on the end of a catheter that's still occasionally used to clear clots in the lung during life-threatening emergencies.
Garman Kimmell's contributions to the filter went far beyond that first conceptual leap. "Renaissance man" is how Greenfield describes his former partner. In the 1940s Kimmell invented a pressure regulator for natural-gas wells that is still the industry standard. Kimmell's medical-device company occupied a single room in his oil and gas business, but out of it came a blood pump for open-heart surgery and an early blood oxygenation machine for the Mayo Clinic, in addition to the Greenfield inventions and many others.
Greenfield was an ideal partner. Until his recent retirement he was among the "top 5 or 10" vascular surgeons in the country, according to Cipolle. Greenfield grew up in Houston with his grandfather, who raised chickens and pigeons. At age six, after watching his grandfather sew up the neck of an injured squab, which then recovered fully, Greenfield decided that he wanted to be a doctor. His career trajectory was phenomenal. At age 32 he was assistant professor of surgery at the University of Oklahoma and chief of surgical services at the VA hospital in Oklahoma City; before turning 40 he was named chairman of surgery at the Medical College of Virginia; and in 1987, at age 52, he moved to the University of Michigan as surgery chair, later serving as interim CEO of the university's vast medical campus.
Greenfield's strengths as an inventor were twofold. First, says Abele, "he was great at asking the right question." Few thought pulmonary embolism could safely be prevented with a filter, but Greenfield wanted to give it a try. His other strength was persistence. "He was very, very tenacious at improving the device," says James Stanley, a vascular surgeon at the University of Michigan. Even after the filter was a success and was selling well, "he didn't just give up and say, 'Let it be'; he was continually working at it."
In 1973, at a meeting of the American Heart Association, Greenfield gave a talk about his lung-clot suction cup, with a side presentation on the filter. In the audience was Abele, who was scouting for products for his new medical-device company. Abele introduced himself to Greenfield after the talk, launching a 30-year collaboration. First Abele took on the manufacture of the suction cup, and then, in 1980, when he bought Kimmell's medical-device company, the Kimray-Greenfield filter became part of Boston Scientific's catalogue. Abele renamed it the Greenfield filter. The filter helped Abele's company to grow from two million dollars in sales to six billion today, and Boston Scientific is now the largest life-sciences company in Massachusetts. 
Greenfield never earned a dime in royalties from his filter. His Oklahoma superiors told him that a patent was impossible because he worked for a public university and because, as a doctor treating patients with the device, having a patent would be a conflict of interest. So Kimmell patented the device by himself. "I was young and naive, never talked to the lawyer or anyone else," Greenfield recalls. One positive outcome, though, was a certain independence when it came to his relationship with Boston Scientific. "I never hesitated to criticize and essentially force them to maintain the highest quality standards for production, and for the changes that I thought were needed," Greenfield says. In return for his input, Boston Scientific supported his filter research over the years. "They've been very good to work with," he says, "because it's been very profitable for the company."
The filter has gone through two major design changes. In the late 1980s the company switched from stainless steel to titanium to allow compression of the filter into a sheath for delivery through a catheter. Then, in the mid-1990s, at Greenfield's insistence, the company switched back to stainless steel to make the filter compatible with a guide wire, since some of the titanium filters weren't going in straight. Each change involved years of design work and animal trials.
The basic patent expired long ago, and other filters, most of them inspired by the original, now compete with the Greenfield. The FDA has approved eight designs, including the Greenfield, some with multiple versions. One of them, a removable filter called the Gunther Tulip, was the filter Cho placed in the young woman at Michigan. While such filters have their roles, says Cho, "the Greenfield filter is the best. It's proven over 30 years." Cipolle agrees: "How are you going to improve on a complication rate of 2, 3, 4 percent?" The filter's clean lines and minimalist design are the keys to its success. "If you have additional levels of metal, or too much complexity of the device, you set up turbulence and stagnant areas that are actually clot-promoting," Greenfield says.
The risks of having a Greenfield filter inserted are small but real. In a tiny fraction of patients, insertion of the filter itself causes clots. And, very rarely, a doctor positions the filter improperly, and it later moves, which means it must then be captured and repositioned. Finally, the filter doesn't always work perfectly. Occasionally a big enough clot gets through it to cause a pulmonary embolism. But studies show that it is more than 95 percent safe and effective - the best long-term record of any filter on the market.
During the filter's long history, occasional controversies have erupted over its use. For example, in the 1990s many doctors placed filters not only in patients with existing blood clots in their legs but also in those who were merely at risk for such clots, including cancer patients. After some surgeons questioned such prophylactic use, it began to decline. That's fine with Greenfield. "I never supported that concept, because the filter only addresses pulmonary embolism," he says.
No one questions the Greenfield filter's effectiveness. "Everybody acknowledges this has saved many lives," says Stanley. Greenfield, characteristically, underplays its impact on modern medicine: "It's just plumbing."
Ken Garber is a freelance writer on scientific and medical topics. He lives in Ann Arbor, Michigan.

</file>

<file= AmE06_E05>

When you first meet another hunter, you can determine very quickly whether you subscribe to the same school of thought. I first met Phil when he walked into a gun shop that I was in looking for some bullets for reloading. He bought the entire inventory in .375 and up for his personal use. We soon discovered that we both believed that bigger was better, more is best and huge is just plain awesome. We had an instant bond. A few weeks later he brought in his recently finished .585 Nyati and from that point on he was known as "Nyati."
We both ended up moving north, only a short six hour drive from each other in British Columbia. My work would bring me to his town several times a year and for some reason I would always find myself visiting more frequently during spring bear season, go figure! 
One day I received a phone call from Phil and his simple statement said everything, "I got it." There was no need for him to say what he got; he was drawn for a grizzly tag, and in a very coveted area! We both had been applying for years and I had hunted in the area a few years earlier. A hunt was quickly planned and range sessions began in earnest. The area we would be hunting was thick, overgrown with coastal alders and that great plant, Devil's Club. The ranges we would likely be shooting at, while walking the creeks and rivers, would be close, usually well within 50 yards. But if we would walk the small ridges, we may have the need to reach out a couple hundred yards or so. Phil's Nyati was simply too heavy to carry all day and my double was just not intended to shoot if you cannot see the whites of their eyes. I was going to shoot my .378 Wby. and he was going to use his .416 Remington, both rifles had the horsepower to deal with any bruin up close and still shoot flat enough to cleanly take a bear at ranges beyond what our area would present. 
Opening day approached and we packed up and headed north. There is nothing quite like hunting in one of the highest grizzly bear concentration on the continent and sleeping in a tent. It lets you know that you are alive and I will tell you one thing, our rifles were never further than arms reach away.
We were up before light, trying to eat breakfast and finalizing our packs. The crisp fall air was invigorating and a light frost covered the ground. Donning waders, we started the long hike up the creek. Grizzly signs were everywhere, partially eaten sockeye lay strewn across the banks. Several hours up the creek we came upon partially eaten salmon still moving on the bank. Trails of water on the rocks still beaded up and ran, where a bear had walked out of the creek to take refuge in thick undercover. Had they heard us and took off? We do not know, but we both felt that it was only a matter of time until the bears' luck would run out and ours would kick in. We hiked back to the truck via a ridge that ran along side the creek where we glassed. We found several places to glass from later in the hunt if we could find a bear on the bank fishing. 
We had both worked up healthy appetites from fighting the current as we walked upstream and hiking back in our waders. After a hearty lunch we made plans for the afternoon hunt. We began working our way down an adjacent stretch of river where stopped to rest and listen for any bear activity. The sound of salmon fighting their way upstream filled the air. An hour later into the journey, we dropped our packs to rest on a bend and we could hear the short bursts of the salmon's effort to clear the rapids. Then suddenly we heard what sounded like a whole school coming up the river all at once, just around the corner. I glanced at Phil and whispered, "Bear." 
We soon were up and easing our way around the corner, rifles ready, adrenaline flowing through our veins at record levels! The river took a sharp turn and as we eased ourselves around it; we tried to stick close to the heavily wooded bank, out of clear view of whatever we had just heard. 
Suddenly we were about 20 yards away from a bear but we were still hidden in the overhanging alders. The bear was busy eating a fish it had just caught and then went back to fishing for its next victim. Through a series of hands signals, Phil and I slowly crept closer. Our plan was to stay concealed by the underbrush along the side, crawl up to a log jam positioned just in front of the bear, crawl over the top and shoot the bear. Simple and to the point. Well, as we are well aware, there are always little glitches in the best laid plans. We had not moved more than two yards and Phil just disappeared in front of me. Gone, swallowed up by the river! He resurfaced a brief moment later, fighting to keep his head above water so he could see the bear. He got swept into the log jam and was caught half under it, his now water filled waders were keeping him from easily breaking free from the current's grip. I am not sure what he was thinking but I am pretty sure all he was thinking about was not spooking the bear. He managed to muscle his way up to where he could see the bear and work his rifle into position, but the whole action area and scope were covered in mud. He quickly dunked the rifle back into the water and did his best to clear off the mud on the lenses of his scope. As he brought the rifle up and tried to draw a bead on the bear, the bear finally noticed that something was out of the ordinary and gave us its undivided attention. I am not sure that bear knew what we were but it was clear that it had no intentions of giving up its fishing hole. Phil glanced back to see if I was ready to back him up. He was less than 11 yards from the bear, not much room for error. His .416 bellowed and the 400 grain slug slammed the bear square in the chest. 
The bear instantly went into a frenzy. At that moment I stepped out to my right, to be clear of the underbrush, bringing my rifle to my shoulder all in one fluid motion. I remember the bears shoulders centered briefly in my crosshairs and the next thing I saw was water and lots of it! I had stepped into the same hole Phil had, only I was caught in the current and being drug towards this very irate wounded grizzly. The water was cold and I knew I had to do something quickly. I bobbed past the log jam where Phil had just shot from. As I drifted past, there was nothing for me to stop myself with. Phil reached out and grabbed my rifle barrel and at this point there was no way I was going to let go of my rifle with my one hand. Between Phil's firm grip on the Weatherby's barrel and me kicking for all I was worth, I managed to swing over to the back side of the log jam. As I crawled up, we both looked at each other and simultaneously joked, "Fancy meeting you here." We laugh about it now but then it was just a quick attempt to downplay the severity of the situation we had just encountered. 
By this time the grizzly had managed to make it into the thick underbrush and we could hear thrashing through the growth. The 400 grain bullet had severely hampered the bear's motor function, but it was still mobile. "I am going in to find it while I can still hear it," I gasped as I worked my way towards the bank. "Don't you want to wait till it's safe?" Phil prudently asked. I looked over and replied, "There isn't much safe about what we are doing here. Beside, if we can hear it we know where it is." 
Moving through the brush there was an eerie silence, the noise of the running water seemed to be muted and all I could hear was the brush moving and the sound of labored breathing coming from what we hoped was a soon-to-be dead bear. Then the breathing stopped and it became cold and quiet, the hair on the back of my neck stood straight up and we moved closer. A few yards ahead I could see a mass of golden brown hair. The light was subdued with the cover but a few moments later I could make out the rear quarters of the bear. 
I watched closely for any sign of breathing and there was no movement. I turned around to motion for Phil to move up behind me, he was already there. With the bear facing away and appearing to be dead, we could breathe a little easier. Phil worked his way around the bear on my right side while I stood ready to shoot at the slightest movement. Once he had a good position, I moved up to the bear and gave it a good shove with the muzzle of my rifle. No movement at all. I worked my way around to the front of the bear where I poked the eye with the muzzle. No response. The trophy was Phil's! After a series of hand shakes and hollering we assessed just how close we came to meeting our maker and just how cold we were with all of the water from the glacier fed river still in our waders. We headed back to where we had dropped our packs and returned to the bear with our machetes to cut our trail back to the river. This way we could move the bear back to where we could skin it, in the relative safety of the open gravel bar. 
After what seemed like an eternity, we had the bear rolled back out to the river. The bear had traveled only about 15 yards from where it was originally hit. I often wonder just how far the bear would have traveled if I had squeezed the trigger just before I went under? 
With all of the bears in the area, I skinned while Phil stood guard with the rifle. On several occasions we could hear bear traveling only a few yards away from us in the bush. When they worked their way down wind and could smell us, there would be a "woof" and then a sudden explosion of sticks and trees as they would quickly retreat. We were hoping they were going the other way. With the bear skinned and the hide tied to my packboard, we headed back upstream towards camp. The hide was heavy and I could only go a couple hundred yards before needing a rest. Once stopped and resting on the ground, I could not get back to my feet without assistance. I can clearly remember lying on the bank, flat on my back thinking "Why am I carrying out Phil's bear?" All of a sudden the water exploded in a fury behind me, all I could see in my mind was a monster bear coming to get me. At that point, I had no problem getting to my feet and covering some distance, only to discover that it was just a couple of sockeye working their way up from the ocean to spawn. 
We got back to camp and began the tedious work of skinning out paws, turning the ears and splitting the lips.

</file>

<file= AmE06_E06>

Cruising Tips - May 2006
This month: rope ladders; marking chain; pet seasickness; sailing with a bad back; and ideas for singlehanders.
Anchoring
Marking Chain
There are a number of ways to mark your anchor chain, including using paint or plastic-wire ties. I prefer to use strips of colored nylon spinnaker cloth. 
First lay out the entire chain on the dock and flake it in even lengths. Choose a length that is appropriate to the depth of the waters you will be cruising in. I use 25-foot lengths. Then tie one of those easy-to-see pieces of cloth through the links that start each end of the designated length. I wrap the nylon strip through the link twice and tie it with an overhand knot. 
We bought spinnaker-cloth tapes from our sailmaker in 2-inch-wide rolls, in red, green, and white. We cut the tapes into 30-inch lengths and marked each with a felt-tip marker to indicate the number of feet of chain that have been put out. 
The colors let the foredeck crew know how much chain is going out even if they can't see the actual numbers. I've tied green tapes on all the 25-foot marks (25, 75, 125, 175), red tapes on the 50-foot marks (50, 150, 250), and white tapes on the 100-foot marks (100, 200). 
The colors are easy to see, the nylon cloth goes through the windlass easily, and the cloth lasts longer than paint. F.R.
Boathandling
Think Like a Singlehander
I've taught sailing for many years and am always amazed that many crews leaving a dock - often it's a couple - have one crewmember go forward to retrieve and secure the bow line and fender after the boat has cleared the dock. When they return to the dock, they reverse the procedure; someone goes forward, sets the fender, and gets the bow line ready. 
This is hard to avoid on bigger boats, but on a smaller boat - under 28 feet or so - it's safer to set up as if you were sailing alone. This means attaching the bow line or lines to the bow cleats, then leading the lines outside the lifelines back to the cockpit. With this setup it's easy for the helmsman to tend the lines. You can position the fenders on the lifelines so that after the boat has cleared the dock, one person can use a boathook to grab the fender hanging over the side and pull it up on deck, while remaining in the cockpit. When the loose end of the bow line is secured to a stanchion - a clove hitch will work in most situations  - the boat can proceed without having anyone go forward to secure the bow. 
The procedure should be reversed when returning to the dock. Hang the fender on the lifeline and use the boathook to push it forward to the right location for protecting the hull. Once you've untied the clove hitch that secures the bow line to the stanchion, the rest of the docking maneuver can be handled easily from the cockpit; there's no reason for anyone to go forward. R.C. 
First Aid
Bad Backs and Boats
Several months ago I wrote that I had to be very careful of my back when I was on board a boat. Since then I've received a number of letters from sailors asking whether I do anything specific to protect my back when I'm sailing. The answer is that I've tried many things over the years to reduce my back pain, including limited surgery, visits to chiropractors, and acupuncture. But I'm still susceptible to discomfort, and if I'm not careful the pain can become severe. I'm constantly aware of how hard I'm working my back. 
It's not just a matter of putting a limit on, say, how much weight to lift. I need to assess how much bending my back can safely absorb; stuffing a sail into a sailbag for example, is almost sure to give me a backache. I'm fortunate that my wife, Terrie, is fit and energetic - and, yes, she does much of the hard work when we are sailing. We've also done what we can to minimize heavy loads. A powered anchor windlass came first, followed by roller furling and reefing; our newest boat, a 45-footer, has electric primary winches as well as an electrically powered mainsail-halyard winch. 
We use a crane to lift the outboard motor from the dinghy, and we hoist the dinghy itself with the electric halyard winch. Although these devices take care of most of the heavy routine work on board, I still get backaches. I only rarely sleep through the night on the boat, but it's no different at home, so I'm not about to give up sailing. Unfortunately, I have no magic bullet to offer. The best advice I can give is to make sure you know your body's limits on weight and flex, then do everything possible to stay within them. N.C. 
Soothing the Seasick
My wife, Ursula, is prone to seasickness, as is our cat. My wife tried many of the standard remedies, but aside from getting thirsty and becoming drowsy, she didn't feel any better. Then a fellow cruiser mentioned having had good luck with Triptone. Happily, my wife found that it worked for her, even after the onset of seasickness, which has not been the case with the other brand-name medications. 
We've since discovered that this product is well known in the diving community and is carried by many dive shops. It's also available through local pharmacies. Of course, you should consult your doctor before using any medication. 
We've also found it helpful to spend several days at anchor before heading offshore. My wife says this helps her get used to the boat's motion and start to get her sea legs. Certain foods - citrus-, ginger-, or lime-flavored drinks and ginger ale - seem to work well for us, and we've found that eating smaller amounts of food more often helps too. We avoid sweets in favor of salty crackers or pretzels. If your sweet tooth needs attention, try ginger cookies. 
Giving human crew a seasickness medication is one thing; giving such a medication to a cat or dog without clear instructions from a knowledgeable veterinarian is another. We medicate our cat, in a dose appropriate for her weight. She often becomes drowsy. We keep her comfortable and place a container with water nearby. Hugging, holding, or petting a seasick animal also seems to reduce its stress level. H.P.M.
Seamanship
Tie One On
I've heard stories about sailors who were alone aboard their boats, doing some in-port maintenance, and were never heard from again. Presumably they fell overboard and had no way to pull themselves out of the water. The potential for trouble is greater if the boat is located where the water never gets very warm. 
In Maine, where I live, we're lucky if the water temperature gets above 60°F in the middle of the summer. In the spring, when boats are being prepared, 40°F is more typical. Because I work on my boat frequently, those temperatures got me thinking about how to eliminate this danger. 
Now when I'm working on board, I rig my "self-protection gear." This consists of a rope ladder with wooden slats. I attach its head to a strong point like a cleat or winch. The folded ladder sits on one of the boat's quarters, and a strong, light line runs from its base over the side and down to the water. A gentle pull on the line is all it takes to make the steps fall over the side (the lower steps rest in the water). The line hanging over the side is long enough to be easily reached by a swimmer. Fortunately, I've never had to use this gear, but I've tried it out thoroughly and rig it when I'm on the boat by myself. T.T. 
Words from the Wise
"There is no substitute for getting to know your own boat although it takes time and patience, a steady crew and testing and tuning. If you race it will also require detailed recordings of the sailhandling adjustments that work for your boat. 
"Perhaps even more important is to have an experienced crew. Look at the leading sailors and you will find most have put a lot of time and practice into their boat and have also sailed a lot on other boats. Each crewmember, having done his particular job many times before, knows his objectives. And ideally the skipper, who is the leader, should have as much knowledge in all areas as each individual crewmember. The more experienced the crew the quieter and more efficient the boat will be. Practice gives you the ability to act fast and seize any opportunity to move the boat ahead."  - Wallace Ross, Sail Power
Seamanship
Multi MOB Maneuvers 
Catamarans and trimarans do not lend themselves to standard crew-overboard maneuvers. With multihulls there are so many design variables that you need to experiment to find what works best with your boat. 
While the mainsail of a monohull can almost always be luffed on a close reach to slow the boat, a typical multihull, with its swept-back spreaders and full-batten mainsail, often must be pointed almost directly into the wind before it slows down. Also, if a multihull is left to drift while its crew is attending to an MOB, the bow will be blown downwind, the main will fill, and the boat will accelerate; this will happen a lot faster than it would on a monohull. 
Some multis tack well, while others won't go through the wind in any kind of seaway and need to be gybed instead. In addition, both boat speed and the point of sail can represent significant variables that make it difficult to recommend a standardized procedure. This means multihull owners should design their own MOB-recovery maneuvers. Follow these steps: 
•Try stopping the boat by easing the sails. How close to the wind do you need to steer before the boat stops? Note how much (or, equally important, how little) momentum the boat is carrying when the sails are depowered or the engine is put in neutral. Learn how soon the boat will start backing up. Find out how fast it drifts downwind. 
•Try tacking and gybing relatively quickly from both a close reach and a broad reach and note any limitations or difficulties you experience. 
•Formulate your own crew-overboard maneuvers for use when sailing both upwind and downwind and write out a brief step-by-step description. Decide if the instructions should vary depending on the point of sail. 
•Now try the maneuver with a buoy in the water that has some type of weight or drogue so it won't drift quickly to leeward (a fender tied to a bucket works well). 
•After testing your method, realistically evaluate what should be changed. Type up a succinct description, and keep copies on board to show to crew and guests. 
•Finally, ask other multihull sailors what they would do in an MOB situation. J.C.
Navigation
Radar piloting 
The most accurate tool for estimating your distance to a solid target is radar. When you have to traverse a narrow channel close to the shore with off-lying dangers and you can't line up two objects to see you through, select the most appropriate range setting, then set the variable range marker (VRM) to a safe distance from whichever shore seems likely to offer the best radar target. You can then sail or motor along and be sure of your distance off. Double-check everything, make sure you have a bailout plan in case the radar goes on the blink, then forge ahead while keeping the VRM just touching the echo of the shore. T.C. 
Techniques
Letting go the sheet 
Releasing a loaded-up sheet from a winch when a boat tacks can be just cause for nervousness. Sailors who have just moved up to big keelboats often underestimate the loads on a sheet.

</file>

<file= AmE06_E07>

Tanzania in East Africa, sits astride one of the most prolific gemstone belts on the planet. Nearly every known natural gem can be found within its borders. Some gems, such as color-change sapphire and garnet, chrome tourmaline, and the better-known tanzanite, are found nowhere else in economic quantity. The lure of astounding gems attracts many adventurers, and the country's good (by African standards) and improving political system help make Tanzania a fun place to visit. 
The country's gem trade thrives in the town of Arusha, in the north central part of the country. Situated on the southern flank of Mt. Meru, a smaller but yet immense volcanic sister to Africa's tallest peak, Mt. Kilimanjaro, which lies about 60 miles to the east, Arusha enjoys a beautiful climate, friendly people, and lots of opportunities for gem buyers. A major rallying point for tourists set on climbing Kilimanjaro or exploring the Serengheti or one of several other national parks close by, the town was once a favorite hangout of Ernest Hemingway. 
One of my favorite pastimes in Arusha is to sit in gem dealers' offices and watch local miners and traders show their parcels of rough and cut gems. Frequently, "runners" tout stones for sellers too busy to visit all the dealers' offices in town  -  there being more than 100 registered gem dealers in Arusha. During past visits, I have been shown everything from nearly flawless 120-gram tanzanite crystals, proudly displayed by young millionaires, to broken windshield glass being hawked by street boys. I have seen exquisitely dressed African ladies selling 20 kilos of graded tanzanite, old men flashing a handful of two- to four-carat faceted tsavorites, bags of acorn-sized rhodolites, and 30 grams of flawless and chunky chrome tourmaline rough. Sapphire is commonly seen and tanzanite  -  generally very expensive  -  is to be found everywhere. A seemingly endless and always fascinating parade of characters come to Arusha to sell. A small parcel of valuable stones carefully rolled up in a handkerchief, stuffed into a shirt or under a blouse, or perhaps several kilos of some kind of opal found on some farm 300 miles away, carried to town on a roaring diesel bus in an old leather suitcase, and overflowing from an old, worn-out paper bag. In some offices, certain determined sellers or runners are seen repeatedly throughout the day, showing new stones or parcels on successive trips, hoping that he or she has finally found just what the buyer is looking for. I admire the drive and perseverance of these entrepreneurs. A successful sale brings a decent commission to these hard-working folk who obviously enjoy the world of stones. In the past four years, cell phones have improved the efficiency of it all, and it seems as though everyone in town is in the business. Doormen, bartenders, taxi drivers, waiters and, of course, a multitude of unemployed folk constantly try to make a few bucks selling stones. 
Legally, stone transactions must be concluded in the presence of a registered gem dealer. Purchasing stones on the street without a dealer present is very risky. Foreigners carrying stones without proper documents risk arrest or confiscation of their stones. Acting as an arbitrator between buyer and seller, a good dealer will help the buyer with his negotiations and keep the sellers honest by noting defective stones. Dealers don't want most stones to sell at overly high prices because the sellers will expect to get similar prices from the dealers after the buyers have gone. Instead, a wise dealer will watch his buyers' buying habits, learning which of the many available stones are marketable (besides the common but overpriced tanzanite). The dealers will then buy those stones as they become available and hold a variety of them in reserve to show and sell at a good profit to future buyers. Many dealers gradually compile parcels for themselves that they later carry to Europe, the United States, or Asia for resale. 
At times, when sitting in a dealer's office, and only inferior lots are being offered, it is the anticipation of eventually seeing something of value that keeps everybody's interest up. Patience really becomes a virtue for anyone traveling to Arusha, because great stones are available. Travelers should plan on staying a while, enjoying the scenery, food, drink and, of course, the stones! 
Dealers expect a negotiable two percent or greater fee for their services, to be paid after the buyer's parcel is packaged and sealed in front of the government agent. This sealing process must be done properly to prevent the confiscation of the stones at the border or the airport. Unfortunately, not every dealer is competent when it comes to the process paperwork, and therefore it's definitely best to set aside a full day for completing the paperwork. Have the dealer arrange an appointment with the agent well in advance. The government man will calculate a very fair tax and add his fee, or "lunch money," to the bill. Of course, only the official government fees will be invoiced. The agent will provide the necessary paperwork and explain the procedure for presenting it at the airport. An honest dealer will hold the sealed parcel in his safe until it is time for the buyer to leave the country; at that time the buyer can pay for the stones and the dealer's fee and receive his parcel, still sealed, thereby reducing his or her risk of theft. 
A New Stone? 
During one such trip, my friend, Eileen Shelton, and I sat in the office of Paul Kaje, a licensed gem dealer and Pentecostal minister, as his fellow pastor and gem-dealing friend, Longan, ushered in, one by one, hopeful stone salesmen. (For some reason, many protestant pastors moonlight as gem dealers in Tanzania.) Fortunately, the day in question proved worthwhile when a miner, a parishoner from Longan's church, entered Paul's office. As the Tanzanian miner poured his rough stones onto the dealer's desk for us, red and orange flashes jumped out from the tumbling mass. As we slowly rotated and examined individual pieces, flat transparent flakes within a clear matrix flashed neon shades of orange, green, blue, pink, and lavender. Eileen and I had seen many examples of Oregon sunstone but we realized that these stones were very different.
That, our first exposure to the new vivid East African sunstone, was in May of 2002. Unknown to us at that time, parcels of the stones had already been finding their way into the American market for over a year, with prices of rough and cut stones fluctuating wildly as dealers and buyers maneuvered to establish values for the new material.
Upon returning to Montana, I faceted and cabbed three dozen of the stones, which I showed to Bill and Barbara Bowden at the Denver gem and mineral show in September of 2002. The Bowdens, from San Antonio, Texas, owners of Rocks, Lapidary, and Jewelry, were amazed by the new sunstone's color antics. Looking like molded acrylic gumdrops filled with colorful confetti flakes, or "spangles," as Bill called them, the clearest of the cut stones frequently produce comments of disbelief from experienced cutters.
Floating within a pale green to colorless feldspar matrix, variably sized thin transparent flakes (Bill's "spangles") are aligned parallel to cleavage planes. Local African miners call these euhedral flakes "flowers." The transparent (hematite) flakes are predominantly orange, gold, or red-orange. However, they reflect a multitude of electric neon colors as the stones are rotated. Heavily included cabochons frequently display one or more cat's-eye bands and weak starring is occasionally seen. Finished stones of 20 to 120 carats are not uncommon. Light green matrix stones, initially misidentified as emerald by African miners, have few or no spangles. However, it is within the colorless matrix that the fascinating flat inclusions are most frequently found. Surface striations seen on occasional colorless matrix pieces, as well as laboratory analysis of the sunstones, identifies them as being plagioclase feldspar.
As with any gemstone, few pieces of the new material are of top quality. Cleavage problems and impure matrix makes many of the stones unfit for fine faceted gems or even cabochons. This lower-grade material is doomed to become beads or fish-tank gravel. On better stones, attempting to polish facets parallel to cleavage planes can be difficult, requiring the use of a wax lap. However, the spectacular flashing colors so well presented in small and especially large well-cut and competent-bodied gems make sorting through a relatively large volume of rough material well worth the effort.
Dubbed "Illusion Sunstone" by New Era Gems' Steve Ulatowski, and "Tanzasun" by Bill and Barbara Bowden, the new material could perhaps be given the more fitting name of "Maasai Sunstone." Found first by a young Maasai man on tribal grazing lands in about 2000, the stone's basic color, red orange, mimics the bright hues of the Maasai people's dress. Since the Maasai have found several of East Africa's gem deposits, it seems fitting that at least one of their stone discoveries should carry their tribal name. (During many visits with the Maasai, I have learned how important the red-orange or copper color is to them. My partner's Land Rover is a red to bronze color. Without fail, upon our arrival at any Maasai village or boma, the Maasai will immediately begin admiring the color of his car and, much to his chagrin, immediately begin writing in the dust covering his vehicle!)
Sunstone on site.
My return took longer than I expected; I was unable to return until 16 months later, rather than the promised four. When I did get back to Tanzania in October, 2003, I visited the sunstone mining area with my Arusha partner, Sune Merisheki. For two years, dozens of miners had intermittently worked two deposits separated by seven miles of GPS-measured, rough, brushy terrain. 
At both locations, nearly identical geological environments were pockmarked with numerous pits, shafts, and short adits. Exposed in canyons at each location were moderately soft, well-foliated biotite schists, 80 feet or more thick, overlaid by very hard granular quartzites and quartz gneiss. Large volumes of slope rubble and float rock covered the hillsides, in many places hiding the contacts between the two rock types. However, at both locations, the foliation of the schist is parallel to the schist/quartzite contacts that were visible. Six-inch- to four-foot-long broken lenses of white to pink feldspar lay pinched in and parallel to the schist foliation. The sunstones were found within these sugary feldspar lenses and pods. At neither location was the base of the biotite schist exposed, so we were unable to determine either the schist's thickness or the preferred stratigraphic position of the sunstone-bearing lenses within.
Our visit to the first, or western dig, began at a Maasai boma  -  a settlement of about 50 hearty souls living in the small, grass-roofed wood and mud huts surrounding their cattle corral. This boma was one of three temporary satellite settlements or extensions of the nearby central village. Each boma was the equivalent of a Montana "cow camp," and tribal members  -  usually very young boys  -  would drive cattle from the bomas to nearby pastures. The corral and its human shelters were all surrounded and protected by the nastiest of thorny acacia branches heaped in a lion-deterring doughnut about 15 feet tall. During the night, a similarly thorned gate would be pulled tightly shut against the normally open entrance. 
After sharing cordialities with the folks at the boma, we headed for the mine along a two-mile road hewn through the woods by the locals and miners. Winding along the "road" through dried forest, steeply angled creeks, and long, narrow rocky ridges, we finally arrived at the mine. Two adult giraffes grazing in the forest just above the digs seemed to be standing guard. Within the outline of a miner's abandoned stick shelter lay the dried skin of a snake, no longer of use to its former owner. Still exposed in the digs were partially excavated feldspar lenses, many yielding flashing gems when challenged with the hand pick.

</file>

<file= AmE06_E08>

2006 Mazda Kabura Concept

While American manufacturers are looking more backward than forward for inspiration for their products--look at the Ford GT and Mustang and the Dodge Challenger concept for confirmation--Japanese automakers are much more focused on moving ahead.
Among the evidence is the Mazda Kabura, this stunning little coupe designed at the company's West Coast studio in Irvine, California, under the watch of Franz von Holzhausen, the director of design at Mazda North American Operations. "It seems like the Americans are reaching out for the good old days and good old times," says the thirty-seven-year-old von Holzhausen--who was previously responsible for the Pontiac Solstice and the Saturn Sky at General Motors--"whereas the Japanese don't necessarily have this history to draw on or can even relate to it. So instead of falling back, we want to design cars that fit the future."
The concept's aggressive proportions are highlighted by monster nineteen-inch front and twenty-inch rear wheels, but perhaps the most interesting aspect of the Kabura is its interior packaging, which features three-plus-one seating.
Looking at the car, it's hard to believe that the Kabura has room for any more than two people, but by utilizing the space normally taken up by the glove box and a conventional dashboard, Mazda designers were able to move the passenger seat forward, leaving room for a full-size chair behind it. With this offset seating arrangement, there's space behind the driver for a jump seat. Only children need apply for this pew, however, since it is large enough only for a fiftieth-percentile adult.
Gee-whiz concept-car features include a two-piece glass hatch and an extra door on the right-hand side of the car that glides, much like the Kaiser-Darrin's did, straight back into the wheel-arch area.
This three-plus-one layout makes sense, according to von Holzhausen, because "Mazda research has shown that younger buyers feel that their cars are very personal to them and that they don't generally carry people around. If they do, the maximum number of people they carry is three, and then, most of the time, that won't be for long-distance traveling--just to get to the airport, for instance." Mazda doesn't have an inexpensive entry in the coupe market, which is emerging (again), so it made sense to explore this area. "We actually clinicked the concept, trying to feel out the marketplace. It is still very much a concept, but one for which we have done our homework."
The Kabura--named for a Japanese word meaning "first arrow launched into battle"--is based on MX-5 running gear and powered by a 190-hp version of the 2.0-liter DOHC in-line four-cylinder MZR engine. Mazda is at pains to point out that the underpinnings were chosen to ensure that the vehicle moves under its own power, not for any production purposes. As such, the Kabura is about one inch longer than the MX-5, which is only 157.3 inches long.
Of course, the question is, will Mazda build it if everyone loves it? Moray Callum, Mazda's worldwide design director, is adamant that you will see elements from all three of its latest concept cars in the future, but not the cars themselves. We suspect, though, that Mazda is looking very carefully at the small-coupe market, partly because we know that there are people inside the company who would love to re-create the vibe around the original 1972 rotary-engined RX-3 coupe.
The problem for Mazda is whether it can produce a low-cost coupe using its current front-engine, rear-wheel-drive architecture, as exists for the MX-5 and the RX-8. In a way, there's little point in Mazda basing such a coupe on an existing front-wheel-drive platform, such as the 3, because the company would just be coming late to the Honda Civic Si party, even if the resulting car turned out to be superior. Do we think there's a market for something this good looking, that offers MX-5-style driving thrills, and that would be affordable? Absolutely. But, then, we don't have to make a business case for it.
2006 Volkswagen GTI

When we first drove the new GTI more than a year ago (December 2004), it impressed us with its torquey, direct-injection turbo four-cylinder and solid chassis. It felt like a return to the formula that made the original 1983 GTI a cult icon for car nerds: a combination of sports-car handling and station-wagon versatility with the price of a workaday sedan. But that drive was in the European-market GTI, not a U.S.-spec car. Haughty German engineers often decontent and soften the cars they send us to suit their preconceptions of Homer Simpson-like American tastes, but now that we've driven the U.S.-spec GTI, we're happy to report that Volkswagen engineers left our car plenty sharp.
In fact, not much changed for the GTI's journey across the Atlantic. To better survive collisions with trucks and SUVs, the U.S. car rides 0.6 inch higher (the same height as the Golf), but that makes it more prone to body roll, if less likely to crash into its bump stops. Like the Euro GTI, our version can be throttle-steered; if your arc into a corner is too wide, back off the gas, and the front tucks in as if it's reading your mind. The U.S. GTI isn't as stiffly sprung as a Mitsubishi Evo, so it will make a more livable conveyance in the frost-beaten Rust Belt. This fifth-generation GTI feels utterly responsive but never punishing. The steering is precise and nicely weighted, and torque steer never snatches at the wheel, which is quite a feat given the prodigious off-the-line grunt.
Buyers can choose between the standard six-speed manual or VW's superb dual-clutch sequential-manual DSG transmission, which operates smoothly when you're inching along yet is lightning quick to downshift. The DSG will include a launch-control program later in 2006 (when we also get the Q-ship four-door GTI and the regular Golf), but for anything short of a smoky burnout, the current setup is nearly ideal.
The GTI is slated to cost only about $23,000 including destination fees, a CD changer, xenon lights, seventeen-inch wheels, stability control, six air bags, and retro-chic plaid upholstery. More money will buy leather-clad seats, a cumbersome navigation system, and a sunroof, but all the froufrou pushes the price close to $30,000. The only extras we'd consider are hollow-cast eighteen-inch wheels and the DSG ($750 apiece), because then we'd have a refined, capable, well-equipped, and truly fun hot hatch for less than $25,000.
VW's top dog, Bernd Pischetsrieder, called the previous GTI a "joke" while the car was still on sale here. This wasn't humility, it was a promise to the VW faithful that the new GTI would be worth waiting for. VW has kept that promise: the new GTI is not just better than the car it replaces; it's good enough to be on any smart enthusiast's short shopping list.
2006 Buick Lucerne

The 2006 Buick Lucerne puts a new face on a well-known GM formula: a front-drive sedan with a 3.8-liter, pushrod V-6. This engine is nearly as legendary for longevity as the Chevrolet 350, and just about as ancient, too. If you feel that pushrods are a bit outdated, you can also choose a 275-hp, 4.6-liter, DOHC V-8, making the Lucerne the first V-8-powered Buick sedan in over a decade.
Under those engines is another old piece of metal, a GM front-wheel-drive chassis that has seen more than its share of duty since beginning life in 1995 under Oldsmobile Aurora and Buick Riviera bodywork. But here it can be had with Magnetic Ride Control straight from the Cadillac parts bin, as well as StabiliTrak stability control.
Inside, you will find an interior much improved over the outgoing LeSabre, with more elegant wood, more civilized styling, and a set of new treats, including DVD navigation, heated and cooled seats, a Harmon Kardon audio system, and rain-sensing windshield wipers. The most notable interior feature, though, has to be GM's new dual-depth air bags, which are a step above current dual-stage bags. Those use one size bag with different pressures, while the new GM system found in the Lucerne uses two different sized bags in addition to different air pressures. The system uses seat position, safety belt usage, and crash severity to calculate the proper bag and pressure, and is claimed to be the safest frontal air-bag system yet.
Styling is a step above recent Buicks (especially the cheaper LaCrosse) and a glance at the side even evokes a bit of the lovely Infiniti G35. Traditional Buick fender portholes make a stylish comeback here after a half-hearted attempt on recent Park Avenues. Some Buick traditionalists will object when they see four portholes adorning the side of a mid-level Buick, but on closer inspection one will discover three portholes denotes a V-6 model, while four represent a V-8 Lucerne. Makes sense to us.
Cadillac DTS
The 2006 Cadillac DTS marks the end of the five-decade-old DeVille nameplate and the completion of Cadillac's quest to boil all its cars into an alphabet soup of CTS (entry-level luxury sport sedan), STS (luxury sport sedan), SRX (sport crossover wagon), XLR (two-seat convertible), and now DTS (full-size luxury sedan). But don't let the new nomenclature fool you; the DTS is fundamentally unchanged from the DeVille. While the front and rear styling is revamped to match Cadillac's current "art and science" angular look, the DTS's midsection belies its DeVille roots; the doors lack the prominent character line that ties together other Cadillac cars. Obligatory larger wheels and engine mount updates round out functional changes, but front-wheel drive and the same 4.6-liter Northstar V-8 remain.
The redone interior finally joins the twenty-first century with panel fits more befitting a car in this price range, and new features include GM's new dual-depth air bags (see the Buick Lucerne for more information) and an MP3 player so grandma can listen to her downloaded music with ease. These updates will make this a nicer premium rental car, but they're not enough to make us forget about the luxury and performance of the rear-wheel-drive, V-8 Chrysler 300C, which costs thousands of dollars less.
2006 Chevrolet HHR

No, it isn't at the Detroit show this year, but it was shown in Los Angeles and it's coming later this year, so we thought we'd tell you about it. Chevrolet aims to blend the styling of the original 1949 Suburban with their sporty SSR roadster pickup in this PT Cruiser knock-off. The problem? Chrysler released the PT ages ago, and the craze has since died out. So GM is just a teensy bit late with this one.
The HHR rounds out Chevrolet's attack on the small car market, which began last year with the Aveo and continued recently with the Cobalt, on which the HHR is based. This small wagon is packed with clever storage features and uses a choice of Ecotec 4-cylinder engines. A 2.2-liter making 140 hp is standard, while a sportier model uses a 2.4-liter pushing out 170 hp.
Obviously trying to steal a bit of Scion thunder, the Chevy will offer youthful options such as a Pioneer sound system, XM satellite radio, 17-inch wheels, and remote start. Also, the wagon's massive 16.2 gallon fuel tank is said to give the HHR a range of over 400 miles per tank. Chevrolet plans to have the HHR reach dealerships in the second half of 2005.

2006 Dodge Charger
To the surprise of no one, Dodge is adding a sedan variant to its popular Magnum wagon, the long-roofed counterpart to the red-hot Chrysler 300. What may surprise you is that Dodge's sedan gets into own distinct sheetmetal rather than borrowing the 300's cubist design. Nor is the Charger's slightly forward-canted front end lifted from the Magnum. Seen in profile, the Charger's sloping windowline and kicked-up rear fender recall the iconic, late '60s Chargers. But while muscle-car era Chargers were always coupes, the new one is a four-door only-something that has fans of the early Chargers crying foul on the internet.

</file>

<file= AmE06_E09>

Young newcomer making inroads
By CHUCK DYBDAL
SAN MATEO, Calif. - Jockey Kyle Kaenel believes he made the right decision when he came here to ride on a full-time basis in northern California this summer. The 18-year-old Kaenel has made a positive impression on horsemen here and currently ranks fourth in the Bay Meadows standings with 7 wins from 34 mounts. He lost an eighth win on Sunday when Brave Sun ducked in twice on longshot Cover Magic in the stretch and was disqualified to second despite Kaenel's attempts to keep him straight. Kaenel wrestled with a decision to come here in August when he decided he was going to leave the Maryland circuit. Kaenel rode in Maryland during the spring and summer after spending last winter riding in New York. Trainer James Chapman, a family friend, offered him mounts if he would come to Kentucky. At the same time, agent Joe Griffin, who had booked mounts for Kaenel's father, Jack, called and encouraged him to come to California. "I was going to go with Mr. Chapman to Kentucky in the spring, but he said he wasn't going to be in position to help me with a lot of mounts, so I went to Maryland," Kaenel said. Kaenel, who has been riding for three years and has 259 victories from 1,830 mounts, weighed the decision of whether to ride in Kentucky this summer or come here carefully. "If I went there, I knew I'd ride in stakes," he said. "This looked like I'd have a better chance day in and day out to get mounts. Here I get the experience on all kinds of horses that a young rider needs." Kaenel was a tyke when his dad rode here. He would come to the races wearing what was his father's trademark cowboy hat. "A lot of trainers tell me, 'I remember you when you were this big,' and that helps," Kaenel said. Kaenel credited trainer Steve Miyadi with "helping me with live horses. You have to have a barn behind you." Kaenel has ridden Breeders' Cup Sprint candidate Malibu Mint, trained by Chapman, to back-to-back stakes victories, and will ride her in the Sprint. Malibu Mint will be a longshot, but Kaenel is thrilled to have his first Breeders' Cup mount. "It's going to be tough," he said. "But there are so many horses all they know is to go. She comes from off the pace. Hopefully, that will benefit us." Bonde rues lack of Cup starter Trainer Jeff Bonde was disappointed he wouldn't get to run Untouched Talent in Saturday's Breeders' Cup Juvenile Fillies at Churchill Downs, where she might have been one of the favorites.
She didn't have time to recover from surgery a week ago Monday to repair an entrapped epiglottis. Untouched Talent has won two stakes, including the Grade 3 Sorrento at Del Mar, and finished second in the Grade 2 Del Mar Debutante. Untouched Talent would have been the second Breeders' Cup starter for Bonde, who sent out Spain when she ran fourth in the 1999 Juvenile Fillies. "When I ran Spain, I knew she'd be the fourth or fifth choice, but I knew I had an improving horse," he said. "This time I wasn't sure I didn't have the best horse. I thought this would be as good a shot as we would have." Untouched Talent will still go through the Fasig-Tipton mixed sale immediately following the Breeders' Cup, Bonde said. Two locals to run on big day At least two horses with northern California connections will run on Breeders' Cup Day. Trainer Art Sherman is at Churchill Downs with Siren Lure, who is a contender in the Breeders' Cup Sprint. Trainer Jerry Hollendorfer will run Cause to Believe in the Grade 3, $200,000 Ack Ack Handicap at one mile. Derby attracts 14 Fourteen 3-year-olds were nominated to Sunday's $100,000 Grade 3 Bay Meadows Derby at 1 1/8 miles on turf. Proudinsky, a Bobby Frankel-trained import from Germany, will likely be favored, although Bold Chieftain, coming off a pair of wins, including the Hays Valley in his last start, is a live contender. Bedlam Bertie, Raise the Bluff and Sharper Edge are also expected to go. Illuminise, a stakes-winning filly from the Neil Drysdale barn, remains a possibility. Trainer Julio Canani has made no decision on undefeated Hyperbaric, who would be making his third start. Punishments handed out Jockey Joel Rosario will begin a three-day suspension Friday after his mount, Charm Doll, altered course and caused interference at the three-sixteenths pole in Thursday's eighth race. Jockey Macario Rodriguez was fined $100 for failure to fulfill his riding engagements last Wednesday. Trainer Ed Moger Jr. was fined $300 for failing to report the gelding of Our Tricky Ricky before his Sept. 10, 2006, start at Golden Gate Fields. * Seven fillies and mares will go 1o1/16 miles on the turf in a $20,000 claimer for Wednesday's Bay Meadows feature.

Trainer profile: Wesley Ward
By Brad Free

POMONA, Calif. - A bullring track in Republic, Wash., left an indelible mark on Wesley Ward's first career as a jockey, and his second career as a trainer. "It was the first meet I rode, I was 12 years old, on a track just shy of half a mile," Ward recalled. And it may help explain how Ward quietly emerges as a key trainer each fall during the Los Angeles County Fair meet, run on the five-eighths mile track at Fairplex Park. Fairplex opened Sept. 8, and Ward figures to win about a half-dozen races during the 16-day meet, with maidens, claimers, and un-established allowance runners. But Ward can also train a good horse. He proved it with top female sprinter Bear Fan, graded stakes turf horse Unfinished Symph, and millionaire sprinter Men's Exclusive. Ward was 16 when he won the Eclipse Award as the nation's outstanding apprentice jockey in 1984, and soon outgrew his profession. He turned to training and became the assistant for his father, Dennis, before going out on his own. Once a year, Ward returns to his bullring roots by racing at Fairplex, where his five-year win rate is 34 percent (33 for 96). "The big thing at the fair is that first turn; you have to plan for the first turn when you go into the gate," Ward said. "You don't necessarily have to be in front, but if you're parked wide into that first turn, it's awfully hard to win. "A lot of the horses and riders don't know that first turn," Ward said, "If you're outside them you're [in trouble]. If they don't know that first turn, they're going to bolt and take you out with them." Ward has 24 horses under his care at Fairplex; the remainder of his 40-plus stable is at Santa Anita under the watchful eye of Ward's assistant, Blake Heap. Ward expects to run 20 or more horses at the fair. If history repeats, at least six of those will win. "It's a mix [of categories]," he said. "I've got quite a few 2-year-olds that haven't run yet. Some 2-year-olds take a while with shins and little problems. I gave them time, and they're ready to go." Nearly half of Ward's winners at Fairplex since 2001 have been maidens. "It's a little easier to win at Pomona. You get a horse that ran third or fourth in a maiden-32, and you bring them to Pomona, you catch a weak field that you wouldn't catch at Del Mar. It gives you a real good chance for a horse to break its maiden and get some confidence." Ward said he will spread out his business among different riders, which would be a shift. From his last 33 Fairplex winners, 20 were ridden by the track's all-time leading rider, Martin Pedroza. "A big advantage [at the fair] is the rider," Ward said. "A lot of riders are great riders on the big tracks, but not small tracks. I'm going to use all the riders, and spread them out with the guys that have been helping me out.
"The big thing with this track is if you have a fast horse that can get out in front and get over, more often than not you're going to win," he said. "Otherwise, you're going to have to take back, save ground, and hope the red sea opens." There is one other thing. "I always like to run at Pomona, with the Ferris Wheels and cotton candy. But I've never won a stake at Pomona." That may change this fall at Fairplex Park.
Le Cinquieme Essai done for year
By BILL TALLON
ShareThis
ETOBICOKE, Ontario - Le Cinquieme Essai, a 7-year-old gelding who was looming as the top local candidate for next Sunday's Grade 1, $1 million Woodbine Mile, is through for the season. "He had a little bit of filling in a suspensory," said Paul Nielsen, who trains Le Cinquieme Essai for owner and breeder Bill Scott. "We scanned him, and there's a little tear. It's nothing serious, but if we kept going with him, it would be. "He'll make a nice 8-year-old." Le Cinquieme Essai had won the Grade 2 Play the King, a seven-furlong turf race that is the major local prep for the Woodbine Mile, in his last start on Aug. 26. Last year, Le Cinquieme Essai finished third in the Woodbine Mile, beaten 8 3/4 lengths by the winner, Leroidesanimaux, but just a length for second place by Mobil. Becrux breezes for Mile Becrux, who stayed here with an eye toward the Woodbine Mile after shipping in from California to finish second in the Play the King, breezed six furlongs in 1:18.20 on the main turf course here Friday. Becrux, a 4-year-old gelding trained by Neil Drysdale, had won the restricted Wickerr Handicap at one mile on turf at Del Mar in his start prior to the Play the King. Corey Nakatani, who rode Becrux in the Wickerr, is slated to be back aboard for the Woodbine Mile after Brice Blanc had the mount in the Play the King. Preparation elsewhere, as well Woodbine Mile candidates who breezed at their current home bases on Friday included Remarkable News, Three Valleys, Rebel Rebel, and Ballast. At Belmont Park, Remarkable News worked five furlongs in 1:00.96 on the main track. Remarkable News, a 4-year-old colt trained by Angel Penna Jr., won the Grade 2 Fourstardave at 1 1/16 miles on turf at Saratoga in his last start. The Woodbine Mile would be the second appearance here at Woodbine for Remarkable News, who won the Grade 3 Connaught Cup, a 1 1/16-mile turf race, by a nose over Le Cinquieme Essai on May 28. Javier Castellano, who has ridden Remarkable News in each of his nine career starts, will retain the mount. Three Valleys also worked on Belmont's main track, going six furlongs in 1:13.80. A 5-year-old horse trained by Bobby Frankel, Three Valleys won the Grade 3 Oceanport at 1 1/16 miles on turf at Monmouth Park in his last start. Ramon Dominguez, who rode Three Valleys in the Aug. 6 Oceanport, has the call here. At Saratoga, Rebel Rebel breezed five furlongs in 1:03.18. A 4-year-old colt trained by Richard Dutrow, Rebel Rebel finished third in the Oceanport after winning Belmont's Grade 3 Poker at one mile on turf, with Remarkable News second. At Fair Hill, in Maryland, Ballast breezed six furlongs in 1:13.20. A 5-year-old gelding trained by Graham Motion, Ballast was a front-running winner at 1 1/8 miles on turf under third-level allowance terms last time out. Todd Kabel is scheduled to ride Ballast for the first time here. Two guaranteed wagers The Woodbine Mile will anchor a program that also includes the Grade 2, $300,000 Canadian, a 1 1/8-mile turf race for fillies and mares, and the Grade 3, $250,000 Summer, a one-mile turf race for 2-year-olds. Woodbine will offer a pair of Win 4's with guaranteed pools on the Woodbine Mile program.

</file>

<file= AmE06_E10>

Decoding the Dog Genome
A female Boxer provides the DNA for the first complete sequence of the dog genome - what will it mean to the health of man and dog?
By Mark Derr 
"The dog is everywhere what society makes him," wrote Charles Dudley Warner in the January 1896 issue of Harper's New Monthly Magazine. Elaine Ostrander and Heidi Parker update that message in the November 2005 issue of the online journal, Public Library of Science - Genetics: "The domestication of the dog from its wolf ancestors is perhaps the most complex genetic experiment in history, and certainly the most extensive." Undeniably, the results of that experiment are directly manifest in the appearance and behavior of the dog. 
Since hitching its evolutionary fate to that of humans some 9,000 canine generations ago, the dog has proven the most adaptable, versatile and steadfast of companions, serving as a guard; draft animal; hunter; herder; warrior; entertainer; finder of explosives, contraband, disease and lost souls; healer, therapist; physical and spiritual guide; and friend. With the public unveiling last month of the fully sequenced and richly annotated dog genome - the approximately 2.4 billion base pairs of DNA (A [adenine], which always binds with T [thymine], and C [cytosine], which binds with G [guanine]) that form its genetic code - the dog might now also add to its monikers, shall we say, "genomic consort." 
Of course, the dog is not the first mammal other than humans to have its genome fully sequenced - the mouse, rat and chimp got theirs first - but because of its architectonic breed structure, it might prove the most illuminating. To shift metaphors: geneticists can now use the dog genome sequence like a combination zoom and telephoto lens, zeroing in on specific genes and even minute changes within genes, or jetting back to examine broad patterns and interrelationships within it and between it and other genomes that reveal the evolutionary history of an individual, a breed, a population, or the entire species and genus. 
Dog as Cultural Construct
A cultural and biological construct from the start, the dog is a mash of intensive human tinkering and the natural proclivities both of its wolfish fore bearer and of its randomly breeding dog ancestors. Indeed, the newly released analysis of the sequenced dog genome points to two unmistakable genetic bottlenecks - about 9,000 generations (taken by the sequencers as 27,000 years) ago, when perhaps as few as two tamed wolves produced the first litters of what became dogs. Since then, through what Darwin called conscious and unconscious selection, humans have cleaved the dog into breeds, in effect making it the most variable of mammals in terms of size and shape, with the exception of humans themselves. The most intensive period of breed formation occurred between 100 and 300 years ago, coincident with the rise of "scientific breeding" and clubs devoted to the cult of purebred dogs, primarily in Europe and North America. 
By most estimates, there are today more than 400 breeds worldwide, many with specialized morphologies and behaviors, nearly all genetically isolated. The majority of those breeds are also susceptible to one or more of more than 400 genetic disorders, approximately 350 of which are also found in humans, including epilepsy, kidney cancer, deafness, blindness, auto-immune disorders, congenital heart disease, skeletal malformations, neurological abnormalities, bleeding disorders and neuropsychiatric disorders. 
Because traits and diseases often cluster according to breed and because breeders maintain extensive pedigrees, canine geneticists have long argued that the dog represents an ideal natural model for examining how genes shape appearance, function, behavior and health. In 1991, Jasper Rine, a geneticist at the University of California, Berkeley, with two researchers in his lab - Mark Neff, a postdoctoral fellow, and Elaine Ostrander, a staff scientist - started the Dog Genome Project to study those issues and in the process create a map of the dog genome they could link to that of the human genome for comparative study. [Ed. Note: See interview with Mark Neff.] From that effort was born a cottage industry, under the informal leadership of Dr. Ostrander (now at the National Human Genome Research Institute of the National Institutes of Health) and involving a small group of scientists worldwide, devoted to sequencing the dog genome, segment by segment. The researchers also lobbied to have the dog genome sequenced as part of the continuing Human Genome Project, in order to complete the task quickly and accurately. 
In 2003, scientists at the Institute for Genomic Research and what is now the J. Craig Venter Institute in Rockville, Md., published a proprietary sequence covering 75 percent of the genome of a Standard Poodle, Shadow. On the other hand, sequences prepared as part of the Human Genome Project are posted in public data banks in the US, Europe and Japan as soon as possible after they are completed, so researchers can have access to them. 
In July 2004, without fanfare, researchers from the Broad Institute at MIT and Harvard and Agencourt Bioscience Corp., of Beverly, Mass., led by Kerstin Lindblad-Toh, deposited in those public data banks their "first draft" sequence of 98 percent of the genetic code for "dog" in general and Tasha, an inbred Boxer from upstate New York, in particular. Their sequence was more complete and considerably more detailed than that of Shadow.
Then came a pause - of the seemingly interminable sort that occurs between the time certain dogs are called while snorfling in the park and the time they decide to respond - that was devoted to revision, analysis and assigning chunks of the sequence to their appropriate chromosome. The dog has 38 pairs of autosomal chromosomes - inheriting one from each parent - and two sex chromosomes. Lindblad-Toh's team did not sequence the Y (male) chromosome.
Finally, at a press conference in Boston on December 7, 2005; in a lengthy article in the prestigious journal Nature on December 8; and in supplemental articles in the December issue of Genome Research, Lindblad-Toh and her team, along with Ostrander and dog genome scientists, officially unveiled the by then 99 percent complete sequence of Tasha and a SNP (pronounced "snip") map showing 2.5 million "single nucleotide polymorphisms," or mutations, in the genomes of Tasha, nine other purebred dogs, four wolves and a coyote. This map is useful for finding genes and examining interrelations between groups and individuals. The Nature article also contained an analysis by Lindblad-Toh's research team of the dog genome's structure and a new look at the dog's family tree, origins and transformation by humans. (Full disclosure: Bark deadlines being what they are, I did not attend the press conference, which was designed to receive maximum coverage in the daily media.)
The Dog Genome
Much of genomic science is still involved with characterization and description of the DNA sequence and parts therein, genes being only the most famous. It involves naming things previously perceived dimly, if at all, and often of unknown purpose. But without that basic work, the genome is basically unreadable. 
From a certain perspective, the dog is just another mammal, albeit with a genome slightly smaller and "cleaner" - "there is less junk," Lindblad-Toh said - than that of its human companion or the ubiquitous lab rat, to which the researchers also compared it in Nature. Tucked within the 2.4 billion base pairs of the dog's DNA are some 19,300 genes. By comparison, the human genome consists of approximately 2.9 billion base pairs of DNA and, at most recent count, approximately 22,000 genes. Approximately 72 percent of the dog genes are orthologous, meaning they correspond on a one-to-one basis with genes found in the human and rat genomes, although their functions might differ. 
Comparison of mouse, human and dog genomes have identified a core 812,000,000 base pairs (5.3% of the total human genome) of ancestral sequence common to all three species. This DNA encodes proteins (1-2% of the total genome), and includes specific sequences that control gene expression. This portion of the genome is under what biologists call purifying selection, wherein variations on a gene or changes in a sequence are selected against, or weeded out. The sequencing of additional mammalian genomes, including those of Rhesus monkey, cow, opossum, elephant, rabbit, cat and shrew, should help to sharpen the focus on the DNA definition of mammal-ness. 
Despite the similarities between all three species, it appears the genome better reflects the social reality of dogs and humans than does taxonomy, which places the rat closer evolutionarily to humans than the dog. The researchers reported in Nature that some sets of functional genes, like those involved in brain development, showed signs of having evolved similarly in dogs and humans - and more rapidly than in rats. It is a suggestive finding. 
The dog's value in comparative genomics lies in large measure in its breed structure, and here the researchers offer some support to a couple of recent suggestions that repetitive segments of DNA are somehow tied to the dog's physical plasticity, its ability to assume so many different shapes and sizes, as well as to fall victim to various inherited diseases. Geneticists have focused not only on SNPs - changes in a single base - but also on repetitive blocks of DNA, including "short interspersed nuclear elements" and "tandem repeats."
SINE elements, as they are known, are repetitive segments of DNA between 150 to 750 bases long. Interspersed throughout a genome, they move around over time, and some are species-specific. 
On the whole, the dog genome has fewer SINE elements than the rat or human. But it has a "highly active carnivore-specific SINE family" that is full of mutations that vary between breeds, Lindblad-Toh and her co-authors wrote in Nature. These SINE elements are greater in frequency by a factor of at least 10 than any found in humans, and are believed to play a role in gene expression. When inserted into genes, they can cause diseases, like narcolepsy in Doberman Pinschers and centronuclear myopathy (a muscle disease) in Labrador Retrievers. 
Wei Wang and Ewen F. Kirkness of the Institute for Genomc Research, writing in Genome Research, argue that SINE elements are a major source of genetic diversity in the dog. Citing their research, Lindblad-Toh and her colleagues speculate in Nature that the variation from SINE elements "has provided important raw material for the selective breeding programs that have produced the wide phenotypic variations among modern breeds." In that event, SINE elements may have been what has allowed humans to produce everything from the Pug to the Irish Wolfhound.
But no one knows. In December 2004, John W. Fondon, III, and Harold R. Garner of the University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center proposed in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences - in a paper that caught the attention of scientists, if not the press - that changes in the length of "tandem repeats" found within genes are responsible for the phenotypic variation between breeds and the speed with which breeders can change a breed's appearance. Once called "junk DNA," like so many other parts of the sequence whose purpose was then unknown, these "tandem repeats" occur when two or more nucleotides form a pattern that repeats itself over a short stretch of the genome.
Simply, tandem repeats are shorter than SINE elements. Both are suspected of playing a role in creating the plethora of dog breeds. But changes in the timing of development are also believed to be involved. Sorting that out is where the Dog Genome Project began and where it still must go. In that sense, the genome sequence represents a beginning rather than an end.
A Genomic Look at History
It is often remarked and lamented that despite, in some cases, centuries of inbreeding and use of "favored sires" year after year, litter after litter, even the most purebred of dogs continue to show variability in terms of appearance and behavior. In other words, they don't always breed "true" to the breeder's desire. In behavioral terms, as John Paul Scott and John L. Fuller observed 40 years ago in their seminal book, Genetics and the Social Behavior of the Dog, through selective breeding, humans have concentrated different aspects of wolf behavior in dog breeds so that each one represents "one of many possible individual behavioral variations."

</file>

<file= AmE06_E11>

Our 400 tastings plus the results of our recent Culinary Trends Survey show a specific development in the 2006 dining world: the casual chic restaurant. As sustainable philosophy continues to spread, and science continues to enter the kitchens of both casual and fine dining restaurants, diners expect more: higher quality ingredients, more innovation, and more flavor. The simultaneous growth of small, chef-driven restaurants in cities across the country has raised the bar for diners and chefs alike, and haute cuisine is no longer limited to fine dining establishments. Casual chic restaurants offer the best of both worlds, and are the pervading identity of American dining. 
Trends in Dining
The Nation's appetite and willingness to try new things is growing, and there are a variety of ways in which restaurants are organizing their menus to satiate them. Chefs tasting menus are not just for 4-star restaurants anymore, but are increasingly common in restaurants of all size and stature. Of the chefs we surveyed, 68% offer tasting menus, and within that group 20% charge between $61-$90 and 22% between $31-$61. Tasting menus are meant to let the kitchen show off their abilities, but a tasting menu also has to make dollars and cents. When crafted with a balance of high-cost and low-cost items, a chef's tasting menu can be a huge revenue booster for restaurants of almost all dining styles.
The most sustained trend in American dining is small plates. We've seen an explosion of restaurants around the country that pair a tapas-style menu with affordable wines by the glass and a convivial atmosphere. In New Orleans there's Cochon, where Donald Link keeps diners entertained with unpretentious tastes of his Cajun childhood. In New York City, Chris Santos at Stanton Social serves an eclectic but distinctly American small plates menu with Crab Cake Corn Dogs, Kobe Beef Burgers and French Onion Soup Dumplings. At nearby Inoteca, Chef Eric Kleinman pairs an extensive menu of Italian small plates with an equally grand offering of Italian whites, reds, roses and sparklers by the glass. 
What are you Dishing Out? 
Americans are dining out more than ever before, our collective culinary IQ is rising, and the restaurant industry is second only to the US Government in size. So how do chefs make their restaurants stand out? Many chefs turn to the exotic, introducing unfamiliar ingredients and pairing them with the familiar to inspire experimentation and grab their diners' (and the media's) attention. Both Ken Oringer in Boston and Josh Dechellis in New York present their diners with ingredients that are traditional in many dining cultures but still unfamiliar to the American palate (respectively, barnacles, and tuna cheeks). At Minibar's 6 seats inside Washington DC's Café Atlantico, Chef Katsuya Fukushima caters to more traditional DC diners in search of stimulation, but aren't necessarily looking for crazy ingredients. He transforms the familiar into something new, making "noodles" out of feta water, and pairing them with tomatoes, fresh herbs and feta foam. He also serves a nest of crispy caramelized beet strings in a wire mesh bowl that echoes the interlaced tumble of the beets. 
Coinciding with this playful approach is a resurgence of authentic, traditional dishes, only minimally updated to make them stylish enough to live up to modern diners' expectations. Chefs are looking to the traditional dishes of Southeast Asia, Latin America and Africa, bringing them to the American table with their authenticity intact. With the Malaysian street food at Zak Pelaccio's Fatty Crab, Matt Hoyle's elegant Japanese cuisine at Nobu 57, and Iacopo Falai's gnudi topped with milk foam at Falai, culturally significant dishes and culinary philosophies are not lost in translation. 
From 2005 to 2006 it was Asia  -  think Morimoto, Nobu, and cavernous, trendy restaurants dedicated to the hottest Asian cuisine  -  and Spain. For 2007, chefs are looking south to the ingredients and flavors of Latin and Central America. 24% of the respondents to our culinary trends survey said that Latin America will have the most influence on culinary arts in the upcoming year. In Mexico City, chefs like Patricia Quintana and Enrique Pujol craft well-researched, sophisticated versions of indigenous regional cuisine, setting the standard for high-concept Mexican cuisine. 
As for the primacy of Latin influence, Marcus Sammuelson of Aquavit would beg to differ; at the 2006 International Chefs Congress he declared that African food would be the "next big thing" to spread to the European and American continents.
Top Pairs 2006-2007
Sommeliers aren't just for wine anymore; with a variety of floral, earthy, fruity, bitter, and crisp notes, beer gives the bacchanalian beverage a run for its money at Café d'Alsace in New York, Four Points in LA, and Belga Café in Washington, DC, where Chef Bart Vandale pairs a Belgian beer with each dish. 

Guy Savoy in Las Vegas pairs each course with artisanal bread baked in-house. Artichoke Soup with Black Truffle is paired with a black truffle and mushroom brioche; Slow-Cooked Dover Sole with Baby Chanterelles is paired with sweet and nutty chestnut bread. 
Black, pink, grey, volcanic and Balinese salts have found their way onto plates over the past two years; today chefs around the country are infusing and blending their salts with flavors to add a new dimension to sweet and savory dishes. In Washington DC, Chef Noriaki Yatsutake of Perry's pairs green tea salt with smoked toro, watermelon and wasabi gelée. Pastry Chef Romain Renard of Seasons garnishes chocolate and vanilla cream with a cocoa nib and coffee salt in his Contrast of Chocolate dessert. At Vidalia, Chef RJ Cooper pairs a juniper-infused sea salt with heirloom potatoes, garlic cream, and crispy pork belly. 
Trends in Products
65% of chefs surveyed told us they focus on locally grown, seasonal ingredients, but only 10% come from restaurants where at least ¾ of the produce is locally grown. On the menu, 39% cite farm or producer names, and 19% include glossaries to further educate their diners on the food on their plate. Focusing on one particular facet of sustainability is a way for chefs to educate their customers and generate enthusiasm for the subject  -  at Butter in Chicago, chef Ryan Poli offers a sustainable caviar menu that offers farm-raised caviar from Italy, France, Germany and the United States. In Washington DC, chef Barton Seaver promotes the understanding of local, seasonal and sustainable seafood among both diners and chefs. Chefs Collaborative, Sea Web and similar organizations help advance the subject, which sees media coverage on an almost daily basis. 
Organic beer and biodynamic wine are an increasingly common find on menus that promote sustainability, as is grass-fed beef. In line with the growing focus on sustainability, not to mention the scrutiny placed on the American beef industry, grass-fed beef is a trademark of restaurants like Craft Steak in New York, where you can not only choose your cut, but your variety of beef. 
  
Chemicals in the Kitchen
Over one quarter of our chefs report that they have an increased interest in science and chemistry, and use this knowledge in the kitchen with the use of gums, homogenizers, hydrocolloids or liquid nitrogen. One of every five chefs has experimented with complicated techniques that use innovative equipment: 31% use low temperature cooking, 19% experiment with sous vide, and 19% with foams. A full quarter approach food as science, while 52% approach food as art.
In some kitchens, chemicals have come to play as important a role as the stove and the knife. They give chefs new freedom to play with the shape and texture of their food while preserving the integrity of the flavor. 
Sweet/Savory
In a direct continuation from 2005, the most prominent trend in pastry arts today is a blurring of the lines between savory and sweet. Pastry Chef Sam Mason exemplified the trend with his dessert of Chocolate and Banana Ravioli with Mustard Ice Cream and Coffee Soil at a recent StarChefs.com dinner at the James Beard House. According to Mason, the walk-in is fair game, and herbs, beets, and foie gras are all popular players in his desserts. The overall impact of these savory ingredients is twofold: they heighten the awareness of diners as they try to make sense of savory ingredients in a new context, and they bring a balance to the dessert so that it is not so cloyingly sweet. The end result is an engaged diner and an engaged palate. 
Sweets are also taking a page from savory's book as pastry chefs continue to open their own standalone dessert bars. In New York alone, there's Chikalicious and Room 4 Dessert, plus eagerly-anticipated dessert-driven restaurants from Mason and Pichet Ong. The concept is simple: these are full service, sit-down restaurants, with wine pairings and courses, but dessert isn't the afterthought: it's the main attraction. 
A significant dessert culture is being nurtured within these restaurants and dessert bars. As the pastry chefs delve into the walk-in and experiment with breaking preconceived notions of the shapes, flavors and textures that end a meal, they establish dessert as an integral part of the dining experience; and not only for the diners, but for restaurant revenue, which greatly benefits from the raised check averages. The trend is slowly but surely spreading to other cities, and we expect next year to bring a comparable pastry renaissance in Chicago, DC, San Francisco, Boston and LA. No longer relegated to the basement, pastry chefs have found a place in the American culinary spotlight; let's hope they embrace it. 
TOP DISHES 2006
Zak Pelaccio, Fatty Crab and 5Ninth, New York 
Chili Crab
Zak draws inspiration from his travels and cooking in Malaysia and Malaysian street food.
Makoto Okuwa, Morimoto, New York
Shikaimaki Roll 
Makoto wraps the classic Japanese dish in Prosciutto di Parma and deep fries it for a modern twist.
Paul Liebrandt, formerly of Gilt, New York
Scottish Langoustine with Speckled Black Truffle 
Paul's risky food and innovative techniques made for one of the most exciting food experiences in the US. Unfortunately, profit is the bottom line
Sergi Arola, Arola and La Broche, Barcelona
Reorganized Patatas Bravas 
Sergi has his own, clean and organized version of this traditional dish. In this reconstructed classic, Sergi hides the bravas sauce inside the patata
Carles Abellan, Comerc 24, Barcelona
Olive Oil and Chocolate 
Carles blurs the line between sweet and savory with a play on the traditional French breakfast 
Noriaki Yasutake, Perry's, Washington DC
Fish and Chips Roll 
Noriaki reimagines English pub fare through the lens of Japanese technique
Katsuya Fukushima, Café Atlantico and Mini-Bar, Washington DC
Organized Salad with Jicama, Arugula, Corn Nuts, Crispy Quinoa, Cabrales Cheese and Raspberries 
The salad is reorganized as a plated dish. Rasberries, corn and Cabrales make for a strangely complimentary flavor combination.
Donald Link, Cochon, New Orleans
Boudain Sausage 
Socially conscious chefs are choosing their meat purveyors carefully. Donald uses sustainably-raised pork used to make his boudin sausage.
Gabriel Bremmer, Salt, Boston
Roasted Beet Salad with Laura Chenel Goat Cheese Foam and Beet Paper 
The translucent beet paper is a colorful and crisp addition to this dish and steals the show!
David LeFevre, Water Grill, Los Angeles
Bluefin Tuna, Wasabi, Red Radish Puree and Shiso 
Unfussy Asian ingredients in a small plate increase revenue and give diners a chance to taste the range of the chef's cuisine.
Michael Cimarusti, Providence, Los Angeles
Spot Prawn Poached with Fava Beans and Wasabi 
Michael uses tapioca maltodextrin, a starch patented as N-Zorbit to stabilize high-fat ingredients and transform them into powders. Industrial chemicals and products are adding new dimensions to familiar flavors and textures.
Club Chef's Institute 2006
October 29-November 1, 2006
The Greenbrier Resort, White Sulfur Springs, WV 

On October 29, hotel and country club chefs from across America made their annual pilgrimage to the 3rd annual Club Chef's Institute at The Greenbrier Resort, tucked away in West Virginia's Allegheny Mountains. For two days attendees participated in myriad workshops, focusing on club restaurant applications as diverse and simple as how to make a quenelle, the basics of sous-vide and using hydrocolloids.

</file>

<file= AmE06_E12>

She also has produced numerous advertising and product images in her characteristic hyperpolished style for clients from Procter & Gamble to DreamWorks to Smirnoff.
That stylized, perfect look
"She's an amazing photographer," says graphic designer Brent Piper of Henderson Bromstead Art. "She's got a great eye."
Piper first worked with Greenberg in 2003 on a photo shoot in Los Angeles for C9 by Champion, a brand of athletic wear sold exclusively at Target. The company wanted a fashion-forward look, he says, that would appeal to trend-conscious shoppers.
"The way that Jill shoots, and then also manipulates her photography, was perfect for what we wanted," says Piper. "It gave everything that stylized, perfect look."
In the initial week-long shoot and subsequent product-specific sessions, Greenberg photographed men, women, boys and girls wearing various C9 by Champion garments and holding exaggerated positions designed to communicate motion. Watching men strike odd, over-the-top running poses in their underwear, Piper was a little fearful of what the results would look like, he recalls. But Greenberg's technique made it work.
 
 
"That style brought it all together," he says, "and made it more like a piece of art than a product shot.
From the get-go, Piper says, Greenberg has been extremely professional, and has hired a great team of people, such as stylists and make-up artists. "You can tell she's got a trusted group of people she works with to execute her look, and she knows what they're going to do.
"She's the only photographer I've ever worked with who has her own DJ!" adds Piper. At the C9 by Champion shoot, Greenberg brought in someone to spin music and get everybody in the zone, he says.
Piper admires Greenberg's personal artistic projects, too, and remembers seeing one of her large monkey portraits the first time he visited her studio. "It was mesmerizing," he says. "It grabs you. That's so one-step-away-from-human!" The crying children had a similar effect. "They're disturbing," says Piper, "but you can't stop looking at them."
Figuring out the puzzle
Though Greenberg's commercial work typically looks polished to perfection, it varies in other respects, from straightforward portraits taken in simple surroundings to over-the-top portrayals of products or concepts using elaborate props or multiple layers. Her shot of comedian Jon Stewart for the cover of TV Guide hints at this. The portrait of Stewart, with knife and fork in hand, was fairly straightforward and presented no particular technical challenges, Greenberg says. But the White House €"shaped cake he's about to dig into gives the portrait a twist. Prop stylist Peter Gargagliano came up with the idea, says Greenberg.
"He had that made at the Cupcake CafÃ© in New York, so it was actually a tasty cake," she says. "I think [the portrait] came out really well. It was fun to shoot Jon Stewart."
The process of collaborating to devise concepts and plan props is one of Greenberg's favorite aspects of both editorial and advertising work. She chooses her prop stylist depending on her needs for a certain shoot. Some bring a lot of ideas to the table and are perfect when brainstorming is called for. Others are best at carrying out Greenberg's exact wishes, so she may call on them if the concept is already developed.
She likes the opportunity to design her subjects' surroundings.
"It's sort of like you become an interior decorator sometimes. You have to keep up on furniture and fashion," she says, which is not hard for her to do because she enjoys it.
For a Post Honeycomb cereal print advertisement, Greenberg and prop stylist Bradley Garlock created a shower curtain, wall tiles, bathmat and soap adorned with Honeycombs motifs to surround a woman soaking in a bathtub of milk and cereal. Garlock had extra-large Honeycombs made for the tub so readers would be able to recognize them in the shot.
 
 
For a men's fashion feature in Maxim, Greenberg built on the client's idea of using the look of a jigsaw puzzle on top of a see-through table. She added numerous other elements to enrich that concept, including a woman's manicured hand holding a ciga-rette above the table and her feet seen through the table on the floor. Other items placed on the table tied into content in the fashion shots embedded in the puzzle: Near the image of a young man listening to music on headphones, Greenberg placed a portable stereo and a cassette tape; near the image of a man in black tossing a drink shaker were an empty drink glass and a dollar bill.
"It's fun to figure out the feel and the approach, the style it's photographed in, the lighting style, so it all makes sense together," Greenberg says.
For an advertisement for LensCrafters, Greenberg recalls having wardrobe pieces made from the same fabric as the background instead of digitally superimposing the background fabric on the models after the shoot. This is a good example of the problem-solving that goes into executing her shots. For each project, her team must consider various ways to achieve the desired look.
"You have to get your brain around it and figure out what's going to make sense," says Greenberg  -  which means what will work best within the allotted budget. "You have to plan really well in advance so [the original concept] doesn't become a problem. It's all about planning.
"Money always has a big part in all of this," she says.
Asking why
Before the "End Times" exhibit and press coverage, one of Greenberg's assistants speculated that the project might be controversial. "It didn't really occur to me until someone said it to me," Greenberg explains. "And I said, €˜Yeah, I guess.'"
To her, minor tears are a normal part of childhood. Her daughter cries all the time, she says; parents are told to let children cry themselves to sleep so they learn to self-soothe; and we can't always give kids what they want to eat or they'd be terribly unhealthy, so simple everyday meal negotiations often inspire wet-eyed tantrums.
But an outraged blogger who goes by the pseudonym Thomas Hawk whipped up opposition to the show, saying Greenberg was "sick" and should be charged with child abuse. Readers posted comments both pro-Hawk and con. "I feel like it was really all started by one person, and then everyone jumped on the bandwagon," says Greenberg.
The day before an interview for German television, she says, "I didn't imagine it would be an international controversy."
" €˜End Times' was immediately successful, though not as successful as the monkeys," says Paul Kopeikin, owner of the gallery that hosted both shows. Although the monkeys merely remind us of ourselves and the children actually are us  -  humans  -  the monkey portraits are more accessible, he says. But "End Times," he adds, is more important.
"I think of €˜End Times' as having a deeper message, and therefore, as more important than the monkeys, which were really about nothing more than what you saw and the obvious link between us and them," he says. "With the kids, one is forced to ask €˜Why?' and that's always a provocative question."
Happy accidents
As early as elementary school, Greenberg began developing her artistic style. She's been taking pictures and drawing since about second or third grade, she says, and at the time was even printing her own images in the darkroom at her private school in Mich-igan. In fourth grade, she was making animated movies. By the time she started high school, her main artistic influences were the Surrealist painters. She started college at the Rhode Island School of Design as an illustration major, but once there decided to focus on photography instead.
For Greenberg, each of her forms of art blended with and influenced the others. "It all sort of mixed together for me,"' she says.
She hesitates to identify any particular photographic influence, saying, "I look at everyone's work." Being a good photographer is also about looking at real life, she says, and being observant about everything.
You could say this sensibility is what led to both the "Monkey Portraits" and "End Times" series.
 
 
Asked about the differences and similarities between "End Times" and "Monkey Portraits," Greenberg says, "What I thought about afterward is that neither of them are consenting adults. To me, they are images that I haven't seen before. I hope to try to do things that are unique."
"It's funny, both the monkeys and the kids were an accident," Greenberg explains. At the end of an advertising shoot that involved a monkey, she decided to take a few portraits. The results were so compelling  -  "It looked really amazing, it looked so human and interesting and angry," she says  -  that she turned what began as an afterthought into full body of work.
Where did she get all the monkeys? "I basically rented them," she says. "They're all animal actors." A handler accompanied each subject, who was persuaded to sit on mark and look into the camera.
"End Times" evolved by chance, as well. While Greenberg was working on a series of images of six- to eight-year-old girls "vamping for the camera," one of the girls' little brothers captured her attention. Hanging out on the set, the little boy started crying, and Greenberg thought, "Oh, that's better!"
"Usually for advertising you have an exact brief that you have to follow," Greenberg says. "But in your personal work, you can follow accidents and see where they take you."
On hobnobbing
After RISD, Greenberg spent more than a decade in New York, mainly building her portfolio and working on personal projects. She did some little jobs for newspapers, portraits of musicians and retouching projects to make money. Many of her images were of friends, "basically what I'm doing now  -  doing people, stylized portraiture," she explains. Eventually she decided to head west.
"I was sick of living in New York after about 12 years," says Greenberg, who was born in Montreal. Los Angeles offered more space and a nicer quality of life, and by then she was already working in L.A. regularly.
Although she has photographed many well known entertainers, and her television- and movie-producer husband is "in the business," Greenberg doesn't socialize much with the "in crowd" that she shoots. "I don't often make friends with the celebrities," she says, "though it might help my career if I did!"
 
 
Balancing her career and family life can be a challenge. Work sometimes calls her across the country to New York, and she may get anywhere from a day's notice for a new editorial assignment to a week's notice for an advertising shoot. She says that with two young children, she has to evaluate each project on a case-by-case basis and sometimes feels pulled in two different directions. But mostly she can roll with it. "It's going to be harder when my kids get a little older  -  like, €˜What about my school play?'" she says.
This conflict likely affects other parents, but especially mothers, in the field, Greenberg speculates. "It's interesting. There really aren't that many women working in commercial photography," she says. "I mean, there are, but there are many more men."
As to whether there's any bias toward men in the field, Greenberg says, "I'm sure some of that goes on; I just have no idea. It's hard for me to know what's being said when I'm not there."
A day in the studio
For a typical studio shoot, Greenberg and two to three freelance assistants plan the details of the project in advance, making lists, ordering equipment and, most of the time, renting studio space. On the day of the shoot, a set person gets things arranged, and the assistants begin setting up the lights. When Greenberg arrives, she tweaks things, finalizing the look and getting everything just so. Lest you think she just breezes in, does a cursory check and starts shooting, consider this: "It takes at least an hour to get the lighting where I want it to be  -  or more like two hours," she adds, being a little more realistic.

</file>

<file= AmE06_E13>

EDITOR'S CHOICE GREEN AWARD APRIL 2006 
Patagonia implements the Common Threads Recycling Program to reuse your old Capilene long underwear tops and bottoms 
by: The Backpacker Editors 
Patagonia Common Threads Recycling Program
Recycled underwear? It makes more sense than you might think.
Wanted: Your tattered, smelly, nasty old Capilene long johns. Yup, you read that right. Patagonia has developed another eco-friendly recycling initiative, one that turns old underwear into brand-new stuff. 
We're not talking about patching holes and washing the stink out. Patagonia is actually breaking down long underwear tops and bottoms into polyester molecules, purifying them, and transforming the raw material into plastic chips that are then melted, spun into thread, and woven into new Capilene garments. 
Once the program is fully online, the potential impact will be huge. Patagonia currently makes more than 1.4 million Capilene garments a year, and by September 2006 at least half of the polyester in that line will come from recycled soda bottles, shower curtains, and other waste. By September 2007, every Capilene garment will also contain fibers from recycled underwear. The net result will be a 76 percent energy savings and a 71 percent reduction in greenhouse gases compared to production methods that use only virgin materials.
For every 100 pieces of Capilene that Patagonia recycles, it can make 95 new garments. And the company is already working on the obvious next step: collecting other non-Capilene polyester products (like fleece and other manufacturers' long johns). Stay tuned for more on this later in the year.
Available in dozens of styles ($29-$78), Capilene has been a staple for backpackers since it was introduced in 1985. It's one of the best base layers money can buy - soft, quick to wick and dry, and incredibly durable. And it'll stay that way. "We've been working on using recycled polyester to make new Capilene for 10 years," says Jill Dumain, Patagonia's environmental analysis director. "And we finally have a process that has zero performance impact on our final product." 
To participate, drop off your washed Capilene items at the nearest Patagonia store, or mail them to Patagonia Service Center, Common Threads Recycling Program, 8550 White Fir Street, Reno, NV 89523-8939; www.patagonia.com.
HIKING BOOTS REVIEW: MONTRAIL STRATOS XCR 
Boots that are amazingly stable, delightfully lightweight, and surprisingly waterproof. 
by: Steve Howe, BACKPACKER Rocky Mountain Editor 
This staff favorite topped a recent test of lightweight boots (8/05), thanks to its ounce-scrimping combination of ankle support, versatile fit, cushy sole, and innovative waterproofing (it features an external Gore-Tex XCR sock). Cut mid-high, this trail-runner-style shoe has impressed us from the Canadian Rockies to Glacier and the North Cascades, handling 5-day trail treks with up to 50 pounds. They've gotten us up Class III Mt. Siyeh in Glacier, and across crumbling moraines in Switzerland. They gained yet another fan on a recent speed blitz of seven national parks in a week, where our female tester called them "surprisingly stable on rocky terrain, dreamy lightweight, and insanely waterproof." Best for narrow- to medium-width feet. 
Price: $140 
Weight: 2 lbs. 2 oz. 
HIKING BOOTS REVIEW: MIDWEIGHT AND LIGHTWEIGHT 
Go light on your feet with the Adidas Cloudcap XCR and Garmont Nasty. 
by: The Backpacker Editors 
Adidas Cloudcap XCR 
For steep slopes with iffy footing, Rocky Mountain editor Steve Howe usually prefers boots with stiff edges and high-cut ankle protection. But after wearing these nimble midcuts on a 3-day winter trip through Utah's canyonlands, he's making an exception. "By far my favorite midweight boots," he says. "They're stable, weatherproof, and cushy enough for daily trail runs--and even the occasional asphalt jog." Much of that stability and cushioning is due to its GCS (Ground Control System) heel construction, an innovation that earned cousin company Salomon an Editors' Choice Award in 2005. Internal springs disperse the shock from footfalls, especially awkward ones, and even on steep slickrock, the wide outsoles resist rolling over. Of course, it doesn't hurt that the Cloudcap has an aggressive tread made from a rubber that was grippy enough for the slipperiest of Sulphur Creek's slot-canyon boulders. The Gore-Tex XCR liner and full tongue gusset wards off wet snow and and water from stream crossings with ease, and the well-padded upper repels ankle-biter rocks, sand, and grit. Bottom line: An excellent choice for fast and light trips, with the protection you need for loaded travels on or off trail, all at a running-shoe weight. $145; men's 6-131/2, 14; 2 lbs. 2 oz. (men's 9); (800) 448-1796; www.adidas.com. 
Garmont Nasty 
When two veteran testers told us that these were the most comfortable light hikers they'd ever worn, we took notice. The Nasty is a runnable low-cut that grips granite and scrambles up rocky hills like a mountain goat. Unlike many lightweights, it has soles with rounded instead of squared-off edges to prevent excessive pronation and supination. We thought the rounded soles might lead to rolled ankles, but testers instead reported that their feet felt liberated--with more natural flex and range of motion. The sole is made up of four separate sections, a construction that reduces weight and provides support, protection, and stability in all the right places. Studded rubber toe bumpers and heel cups grabbed trail features at any angle. Rubber lugs in the arches gripped on rounded surfaces like logs. The synthetic uppers cradled testers' feet without pressure, and the asymmetric lacing system, which drops the lace path to the side of the foot for comfort and security, won praise. Best for wider feet. $100; men's 8-121/2, 13, 14; women's 51/2-101/2, 11; 1 lb. 11 oz. (men's 81/2); (800) 943-4453; www.garmontusa.com. 
LOW-CUT HIKING BOOTS REVIEW 
Stay light on your feet with the Lafuma Active Raid GTX XCR, Garmont Eclipse XCR, Merrell Chameleon II XCR, Montrail Mountain Mist XCR, and Vasque Breeze Low XCR. 
by: Mike Lanza, BACKPACKER Northwest Editor 
Once upon a time, low-cut shoes were called "sneakers" and used for tennis, and backpackers wore something from a cow that weighed nearly as much. How times have changed. 
Unless you're heading into serious weather or walking on trick ankles, today's low-cut hiking shoes are the way to go. They're supportive, cool, and comfortable, so you'll hike faster and farther with less fatigue. All you have to do is find the model that fits your feet and favorite trails. Our six field testers--three men and three women--logged 2,400 miles in evaluating more than a dozen new models; our top five picks, all of which have a Gore-Tex XCR waterproof/breathable membrane, follow in order of overall performance. 
TESTERS: Kari Bodnarchuk, Jane Brison, Jonathan Dorn, Michael Lanza, Annette McGivney, David Ports 
RATING SCALE: 5 = perfect gear; 1 = save your money 
Lafuma Active Raid GTX XCR OVERALL 3.8 
Rain, sand, mud, or snow--nothing slowed this all-around top performer. 
"Versatile" is the word that kept cropping up on our testers' evaluation forms. The Raid is supportive enough for hiking with 35 to 40 pounds, yet light enough for fastpacking, talus-hopping, even short-distance running. Several distinctive features allow this shoe to multitask. First, each lace has two cord locks for adjusting ankle and forefoot volume independently, which allows a precision fit whatever your foot shape, and gives late-day swollen toes breathing room without forfeiting ankle support. A slightly higher collar provides better-than-average ankle buttressing and protection from trail grit. Finally, a curvaceous rocker bottom permits a sneakerlike stride. 
We subjected these shoes to wet snow in the Bitterroots and mud in Hells Canyon--and never got damp socks, thanks to the Gore-Tex XCR liner (a feature on all of our test shoes). The unisex sizing fit both men and women surprisingly well, though wide-footed men should go up a half-size. Traction was reliable on snow, wet rocks, packed dirt, and pea gravel. And durable construction details such as double stitching and reinforced toes should keep these shoes kicking for several hundred miles. Our "sole" beef: so-so underfoot protection and torsional stability, especially for heavier hikers. $110; 2 lbs.; men's 6-12 (women should go down a size) (800) 514-4807; www.lafuma.com. 
Garmont Eclipse XCR OVERALL 3.7 
For big-load backpacking, this burly shoe is the best choice here. 
Picture a Hummer convertible, and you've got the Eclipse: built to go over anything, or through it. The chassis is stiffer and more supportive than any other shoe we evaluated in this class; testers carried 40-plus pounds for days on the Appalachian Trail and in the North Cascades, and negotiated miles of sharp, fossilized coral in the Azores. The broad platform offers excellent stability on trail, but gets a bit tippy on uneven terrain like talus. No other shoe offers as much padding in the tongue, and testers appreciated how its asymmetrical shape folded comfortably over their ankles. Waterproofing is good--our feet stayed dry through hours of rain and puddles. Solid construction, including a reinforced toe and heel and tough nubuck/synthetic upper, guarantees years of hard use. 
The tradeoffs? The Eclipse is a heavier and stiffer shoe than true fastpackers will want, and it has this field's least breathable upper. Traction was so-so on loose gravel and steep downhills due to the absence of a pronounced heel cut. Lastly, it required more break-in time than other models, though the Eclipse was very comfortable after that. Best for medium- to high-volume feet and wide heels. $130; 2 lbs. 5 oz.; men's 8-13, 14, women's 5-11 (802) 658-8322; www.garmontusa.com. 
Merrell Chameleon II XCR OVERALL 3.6 
Balance dayhiking comfort and backpacking support with a switch-hitter. 
This agile low-top earned a permanent spot in our editor-in-chief's footwear closet after he dayhiked the 26-mile Devil's Path in New York's Catskills--16,000 feet of elevation gain and loss, and a torturous trifecta of rocky ground, polished roots, and innumerable steep scrambles. "These shoes nailed every step of it," he says. "My feet felt so good after 13 hours that I half-jogged the last 2 miles to the car." 
The Chameleon succeeds by combining good forefoot flex (for fast, comfortable striding) with midfoot and torsional rigidity (for arch support). While the shoe isn't as stiff as the Garmont and Vasque models, it has better support, cushioning, and underfoot protection than the Lafuma and Montrail. It's equally adept at dayhikes with 20 pounds or backpacking with 40. The shoes stayed dry through rainstorms, and breathed surprisingly well for a mostly leather upper. The dot-pattern outsoles stuck to rock whether dry or wet, but slipped on gravelly trails and mud. We expect at least a few seasons of hard use. 
The negatives: Only three of six testers gave fit a thumbs up--testers with low-volume feet and two of three women had problems--and the shoe is relatively heavy. Best for medium- to high-volume feet. $110; 2 lbs. 6 oz.; men's 7-12, 13, 14, 15, women's 5-11 (888) 637-7001; www.merrellboot.com. 
Montrail Mountain Mist XCR OVERALL 3.5 
This nimble trail runner ably crosses over to moderate backpacking duty. 
Surprise, surprise: Here's a hardy trail runner--the best in this pack at moving fast--that's also great for dayhiking, backpacking, even scrambling off-trail. One tester took these straight out of the box on a 6-day trip in California's Trinity Alps and found them comfortable from the first step. Versatile, too: "They handled snowfields, steep, muddy hillsides, and slippery rocks, all with a 40-pound pack." This review's lightest shoe marries plush cushioning and excellent torsional stability with good forefoot flex and rocker. Some of us carried 40 pounds comfortably, thanks in part to a plastic exoskeleton that supports feet from the laces to the ankle. Credit also goes to gel cushioning in the forefoot and a full-length plastic midsole plate. 
Waterproofing proved reliable, and breathability is among the best in the bunch. In fact, the shoes never felt damp during back-to-back 16-mile summer dayhikes in Glacier National Park. But the toebox's tight fit was uncomfortable for some testers, and while the snug collar keeps out sand and stones, it's so snug you have to force your foot through. Also, after a few hundred miles, seams and toe rands on some testers' shoes began to unravel.

</file>

<file= AmE06_E14>

What Chefs Know Best 
F&W polled 100 chefs from New York to Portland, Oregon, on everything from their favorite pans to cooking with sodium alginate. Here's what they told us. 
Coolest Collection
Michael Cimarusti of L.A.'s Providence cooks with Bakelite tools from the '30s and '40s.
Favorite Cookbooks
Spoon Cook Book by Alain Ducasse This compendium of recipes from Ducasse's Spoon restaurants around the world, published in 2004, draws on ingredients from Japan to Mauritius.
El Bulli, 20032004 by Ferran Adrià "I should take Spanish classes so I can read it," says Sam Mason, pastry chef at Manhattan's WD-50. "But the pictures are ridiculously great." Worth the $210.
Charcuterie by Michael Ruhlman and Brian Polcyn A definitive new tome on salting, smoking and curing.
"I'm inspired by artists who use a limited palette, like painter Piet Mondrian and the White Stripes, two musicians who create an incredible sound."
 - Graham Elliot Bowles, Chicago's Avenues
CHEF'S FAVORITE KITCHEN TOOLS
Fantasy Serving Pieces
Audible meals "With seafood dishes, how about delivering an iPod that plays the sound of ocean waves?" says Richard Blais of One.midtown Kitchen in Atlanta.
Always frothy Josiah Citrin of Mélisse in Santa Monica, California, would create a tureen with a built-in blender to keep soups airy.
4 Japanese Knives
1. Misono Misono's superthin blades are great for fine dicing.
2. MAC MAC's Chef series is more affordable than many Japanese knives.
3. Masamoto A favorite among chefs who work with lots of fish, like Ken Oringer of Clio in Boston.
4. Kershaw Shun The "D-shaped" handle - thicker in the middle - provides an excellent grip.
3 Great Pans
1. All-Clad Felicia Willett of Felicia Suzanne's in Memphis likes their durability.
2. Le Creuset "They're wonderful for braising," says Cory Schreiber of Wildwood in Portland, Oregon.
3. Old-Fashioned Cast-Iron Tom Douglas of Seattle's Dahlia Lounge uses his grandmother's pan.
Top $10 Gadgets
1. Peelers A wide, sturdy handle and a flexible blade make plastic peelers the most useful small kitchen gadget.
2. Citrus Reamers Easy to grip and maneuver, reamers are favored over juicers.
3. Egg Toppers Alessandro Stratta of Alex in Las Vegas loves this stainless steel tool, which removes the tops of soft-boiled eggs for an elegant presentation.
4. Paring Knives These refute the idea that the bigger the knife, the better, says Laurent Manrique of Aqua in San Francisco.
MOST INSPIRING INGREDIENTS
5 Coveted Ingredients
Prized culatello prosciutto from Armandino Batali's SALUMI in Seattle, a favorite of Bruce Logue of Vivace in Carlsbad, California ($35 per lb; 877-223-0813).
Hard-to-find Oaxacan chiles from THE CHILE GUY in Bernalillo, New Mexico, a staple of Robert Del Grande's Cafe Annie in Houston ($15 to $25 per lb; thechileguy.com).
Normandy ducks from STONE CHURCH FARM in Rifton, New York, adored by Michael White of Fiamma Osteria in Manhattan ($6 per lb; 212-717-8100).
Sake-cured caviar from BLIS CAVIAR in Ann Arbor, Michigan, prized by Alex Talbot and Aki Kamozawa of Keyah Grande in Pagosa Springs, Colorado ($13 for 1 oz; mikuniwildharvest.com).
Heritage chickens from FICKLE CREEK FARM in Efland, North Carolina, a must for Andrea Reusing of Lantern in Chapel Hill (sold locally, from $3 per lb; 919-304-6287).
Chemical Reaction
Methylcellulose
At Moto in Chicago, Homaro Cantu creates faux marshmallows with methylcellulose, which solidifies when warmed and liquefies when cooled.
Sodium alginate
Using this thickener made out of seaweed, Sean Brock of McCrady's in Charleston, South Carolina, creates round balls to hold heirloom-corn soup.
Tapioca maltodextrin
Paul Liebrandt of Gilt in New York City uses this tapioca derivative to make fine foie gras powder.
MUST-HAVES FOR THE PANTRY
What's your favorite baking chocolate? "I've experimented with other chocolates to break my Valrhona habit, but I keep coming back."
 - Nicole Krasinski, Rubicon in San Francisco
5 Favorite Peppers
Cayenne Daniel Humm of Eleven Madison Park in Manhattan uses cayenne in almost every sauce: "A touch, so it makes flavors fuller without adding heat."
Aleppo Mindy Segal of Hot Chocolate in Chicago uses this subtly hot and tangy Syrian pepper in a vinaigrette for arugula salads.
Sichuan With the ban lifted last year, the United States is finally getting authentic, pungent Sichuan peppercorns from China. Anita Lo of New York City's Annisa likes their fragrance and complexity.
Red Chile This hot pepper has a slow burn. "We use it in all our salumi [cured meats]," says Dan Latham of L&M's Kitchen & Salumeria in Oxford, Mississippi.
Piment d'Espelette Gavin Kaysen of El Bizcocho in San Diego accents Dover sole with the sweet-spicy Basque pepper.
Most Underused Spice
Chefs overwhelmingly singled out cardamom. Tory Miller of L'Etoile in Madison, Wisconsin, sneaks it in while brining pork: "It adds a floral note without being overpowering."
Most Versatile Spice
"Black pepper goes with practically everything," says Michel Richard of Citronelle in Washington, DC. Karen Barker, pastry chef of Magnolia Grill in Durham, North Carolina, likes using it in desserts.
Top Cooking Essentials
1. Olive Oil Chefs might argue over which country makes the best (Italy, France, Spain, Greece), but olive oil is their top must-have.
2. Vinegar Michael Tusk of Quince in San Francisco likes the flavor of extra-vecchio (aged for a minimum of 25 years) balsamic vinegar.
3. Salt Joseba Jiménez de Jiménez of Seattle's Harvest Vine uses 60 types, like a fleur de sel found near his château in Navarrenx, France.
GREAT VALUE RESTAURANTS
What kind of fast-food place would you open? "My wife and I joke that if we don't make it in New York City, we'll drive a BBQ truck along the Côte d'Azur in France and serve brisket."
 - Laurent Gras, Bistro du Vent, New York City
Soup "Since it rains all the time around here, I'd open up a soup place with choices like fresh spinach with pickled morels," says Scott Dolich of Park Kitchen in Portland, Oregon.
Sandwiches Alfred Portale of Gotham Bar and Grill in New York City would make Italian sandwiches; Todd Gray of Equinox in Washington, DC, would serve hot Reubens.
Burgers Chad Robertson of Bar Tartine in San Francisco would offer homemade ketchup and freshly baked hamburger buns at his imaginary joint, Liz Burger.
Best $10 Meals
Potbelly Sandwich Works This sandwich chain got its start in an antiques store in Chicago. Now there are 110 locations in eight states. Chef Vikram Garg of IndeBleu hangs out in the 7th Street store in Washington, DC (726 7th St. NW; 202-478-0070).
Yuca's, Los Angeles Pastry chef Annie Clemmons of Cyrus in Healdsburg, California, loves the carnitas (pork) tacos at this tiny taco shack in a liquor-store parking lot. "They're 10-napkin tacos because they're so juicy and rich," she says (2056 Hillhurst Ave.; 323-662-1214).
Red Pearl Restaurant, Homewood, Alabama Chris Hastings of the Hot and Hot Fish Club in Birmingham, Alabama, orders the salt-roasted shrimp at this 60-seat restaurant in the back of a family-owned Asian grocery store (243 W. Valley Ave.; 205-945-9558).
Baguette Box, Seattle "Out of control," says Daisley Gordon of Seattle's Campagne about his favorite sandwich: deep-fried chicken marinated in rice wine (1203 Pine St.; 206-332-0220). 
Favorite Dish of '05
Zak Pelaccio's salad of crispy pork belly and pickled watermelon at Malaysian joint Fatty Crab in New York City. "It's a cool combination of everything that's great about food."
 - Brian Hill, Francine Bistro, Camden, Maine

DIY Cheese 
Barbara Kingsolver learns that making a pound of mozzarella at home is even faster than baking a cobbler, but speed is not the only reason to try it 
Years ago, when I was young and still sure of my own power over boring routines, I studied a map one weekend and found a new, faster route back home from the city where I'd recently moved. I described my clever navigations to my grandfather, boasting that I'd saved 37 minutes. "Thirty-seven," he mused. "And you just used up 15 telling me all about it. What will you do with the other 22?"
Time-saving, the modern credo that sends us zipping from microwave dinners to the fast lane, can blur the truth that life is a zero-sum equation. Every minute saved will get used up on something else, possibly an activity no more sublime than watching TV. Ever since my grandfather's rebuke, I've tried to bear in mind that taking time with the quotidian might make it satisfying enough to be the goal, rather than the obstacle. Cooking dinner, especially, is a pleasure to stretch out over the day's end when work is done and family members trail home. A quick recipe can turn slow because of the experiments we hazard. We make things from scratch for the fun of it. We grow a garden. We bake bread. We make cheese.
Okay, I know. You were with me right up to that last one. I'm not sure why, since it takes less time to make a pound of mozzarella than to bake a cobbler, but most people find cheesemaking a preposterous idea. If friends happen over just as I'm draining a freshly made Neufchâtel, they act like they've caught me at witchcraft. 
In our family it began with experiments. We missed certain things, soft cheeses especially, that my daughter and I often don't eat because of our mild lactose intolerance. A little knowledge of biochemistry (and a love for learning about interesting food processes) led us to think we might feel comfortable eating cheeses again if we made them ourselves, culturing out a lot of the lactose and draining it off with the whey - and this turns out to be true. Making a great soft cheese is as simple as warming some milk, stirring in a special bacterial culture that imparts a particular flavor, allowing it to curdle overnight, then draining off the whey. Our chèvre and fromage blanc were so delicious, we were inspired to try hard cheeses, which are often heated gently in the curd stage, then pressed and aged in a cool cellar or in the crisper drawer of the fridge. Our successes keep us trying. We've even converted some of our friends. You could be next. 
I know, you don't have time. Who does? To calm the great American subservience to hurry, to convince us that an hour or two spent rendering up cheese in our own kitchens could be worth the trouble - what would that take? A motivational speaker, an artist, a devotee, a pal who builds your confidence? A Cheese Queen, maybe? 
The answer is yes, all of the above, and she exists. Her name is Ricki Carroll. Since 1978, when she started New England Cheesemaking Supply Company and began holding workshops in her western Massachusetts kitchen, she has taught some 7,500 people how to make cheese. That's not even counting those of us who ordered her supplies online and worked our way through her book, Cheesemaking Made Easy, which has sold over 100,000 copies (the new edition has been renamed Home Cheese Making). She's inspired artisans from the Loire to Las Vegas. Partly to hone my own skills, but largely out of curiosity, I sought out the woman whose Web site really does identify her as the Cheese Queen. 
Her reign began even before the Sunday morning last spring when my family and several of our cheesemaking friends stepped onto the porch of a colorful Queen Anne with lupines and lilies blooming around the stoop. We walked through the door and fell through the looking glass into a place where cheesemaking antiques mix in with handmade dolls and African masks, unusual musical instruments and crazy quilts. 
Ricki waved us into the big kitchen as she hastily pinned up her curly hair with a parrot-shaped barrette. She'd generously invited our group to sit in as her guests at an ordinary one-day workshop for beginners. We sat at long tables and introduced ourselves to the 20 other students. For several men this was a Father's Day gift. Others described practical goals: a chef hoped to broaden her culinary range; mothers desired healthier diets for their families. Martha, from Texas, owned water buffalo and dreamed of great mozzarella.

</file>

<file= AmE06_E15>

The iconic installation The Dinner Party, created in 1974 - 1979, is now the centerpiece of the new Elizabeth A. Sackler Center for Feminist Art at the Brooklyn Museum in New York. In our Summer 2007 issue, Carol K. Russell writes about the new home for the installation, which features place settings for thirty-nine women of history. (Each place setting includes a cloth runner that incorporates handworked names and designs or symbols.) Here we share highlights of a dialogue involving artist Judy Chicago, held on March 24, 2007, as part of the opening-weekend celebration.
Arnold Lehman, director of the Brooklyn Museum, opened the dialogue, speaking of the "great future" of the new center. He then introduced Elizabeth Sackler - "trustee of the museum, public historian, great activist in terms of Native American cultures, the founder of the Elizabeth Sackler Center for Feminist Art, a great feminist, a great friend" - and "the one, the only, the great Judy Chicago." He concluded, "These are two women of great vision and great commitment."
Much of the discussion among the three centered on the impact and relevance of feminist art and the challenges it has posed to the mainstream art world. Chicago noted that she is very interested in "what was going to happen when the mainstream art world's perception and position that feminist art was a passing phenomenon in the 1970s came up against the reality that the feminist art movement was an international phenomenon, as documented by Wack!, and has now spread globally, as documented by Global Feminisms." (Wack!: Art and the Feminist Revolution is an exhibition on view through July 16, 2007, at the Museum of Contemporary Art in Los Angeles, and Global Feminisms is a Sackler Center exhibition of work by eighty artists on view through July 1, 2007.) Chicago continued, "[Curator] Connie Butler's positioning of Wack! not as an effort to define feminist art, but rather as an exhibition that documents the impact feminism had on the visual arts, is going to be easier for the art world to swallow than the idea of feminist art," she said. She said she is interested to see whether there's going to be resistance now to the idea of feminist art as a movement; "part of that is because it challenges so dramatically the mainstream narrative, and part of it because feminist art is content-based, not stylistically driven, which is how all art movements have been."
What is feminist art? Chicago explained, "Feminism is a philosophy, and feminist art manifests that philosophical point of view, but feminism is an embracing, big philosophy that has its roots back several hundred years to Mary Wollstonecraft's A Vindication of the Rights of Woman [1792]. Basically feminism - or feminisms, as they have developed and expanded - looks at the world first through the lens of gender and with the goal of disrupting the hierarchical structure on the planet that privileges one experience over another, one human being over another, one species over another, in order to bring about greater equity and justice on the planet. So if you start with the grounding in feminism - or feminisms, because they manifest in many different ways - and then you filter that through the various cultural, ethnic, religious, sexual orientations - in other words, all the multiplicity of individualities as people experience the world - then you get a multiplicity of feminist arts." 
There was some discussion of audience and the art market. In response to Lehman's question about what Chicago was noticing about young artists, Chicago replied, "The one thing that has not really translated from the '70s into contemporary art is the idea of broadening the audience for art by making the language of art more accessible. We now have many, many more artists still trying to compete for the same small audience. Another way of disrupting the art system is to insist that we rethink the relationship between art and audience. We ask for whom this art is." Sackler raised the issue of the art market and how it affects women artists. Chicago commented, "Feminist art in its purist form is directly oppositional to the market because it's the opposite of making art for the market."
Later, there was a question from the audience from a student at Moore College of Art & Design: "I was listening to Judy talking before about how feminist art is against capitalism and it shouldn't be market driven, and when it is it becomes superficial. Now I am asking as an artist how am I supposed to make a living - the 'career question.'" Chicago replied: "You know, I come from a different time. I come from a time there wasn't the idea that you could make a lot of money in the arts. Where that was not the purpose of art; the purpose of art was to make a contribution to art history, to make a contribution to understanding, to give meaning to life through art. And I think that every young artist ... I think that right now it is very, very difficult for a young artist to figure out how to build and sustain a career, because the market grabs you up, uses you up, and spits you out. So if you want to do that, go ahead. And if you don't want to do it, then you will be faced, just like every artist before you, with trying to figure out how to make your art with integrity and support yourself. You know, I lived without anything for most of my life. I didn't have a mortgage until I was fifty. Do I regret it? No. Money's not everything. And if you understand that, then you are not going to be a victim of the market." 
Another question came from Jan Marie DuBois, one of the 450 people who worked on The Dinner Party. (In creating the cloth runners, Chicago worked with fiber artisans who assisted with the quilting, weaving, embroidery, etc.) DuBois noted that in previous showings of The Dinner Party, a panel on the wall acknowledged the people who worked on it, but that "there is no information whatsoever of our names . . . or what we did on the walls of this museum." She added, "The reason I think that that is an issue isn't for our egos - it's that the history of The Dinner Party tells the story of women taking a rape. And here we are, we have disappeared visually from the work. I didn't do the work - it was you, you created it all, we all supported you, but what made it dynamic was that in '79 . . . people responded to the fact that this was a huge collaborative process." Chicago noted that she does not own The Dinner Party, so the question should not be directed to her. Museum director Lehman replied that the artisans are being acknowledged on the Sackler Center's website. "My answer is that when you see the evolution of our website, you will see all the names of the people, as the information has come to us. . . . I understand my answer may not satisfy you. But that's how we are going to be able to recognize all the people. You may recall when we did the installation on a temporary basis [in 2002 - 03], we did have space that we set aside to do that, and our feeling was that doing this on the website would allow it to have an even broader audience."
Chicago then said, "If you're going to argue for acknowledgement of the people that worked on The Dinner Party from 1975 to 1979, then I believe you must also argue for the acknowledgement of all the people from 1979 to 2002 who worked to care for, preserve, support, and make sure The Dinner Party was taken care of until such time it could be permanently housed. When I did the new Dinner Party book, on the front endpapers, everyone who worked on the piece is acknowledged. And on the back endpapers, everybody who worked since 1979 until 2002 is acknowledged. And you know what, Jan Marie, there are more names in the back of the book than the front of the book. Making the art was the fun part, but the easy part. You know what the really hard part was? It was taking care of it and making it count. And I would personally feel a lot more sympathetic to the Dinner Party workers when they argue as much for all those other people as for themselves, because most of the Dinner Party workers abandoned The Dinner Party in 1979."
Two books have been released in conjunction with the opening of The Dinner Party's permanent home: The book Chicago refers to above is The Dinner Party: From Creation to Preservation (published by Merrell, 308 pages, $49.95). The second is Becoming Judy Chicago: A Biography of the Artist by Gail Levin (published by Harmony, 496 pages, $29.95). Both books are available on Chicago's website and the Brooklyn Museum's website.

Chinese Kites: A Rich Tradition
The long and noble tradition of Chinese kite making spans more than two millennia. Ancient legends tell of wooden kites being made to carry a warrior through the sky. Kites have also been used for message delivery, reconnaissance, surveying, and even for warding off bad luck or ensuring good health. Because they have often incorporated sound-making devices such as whistles or drums, the Chinese word for kite, fengzheng, comes from the zheng, a stringed instrument. 
Traditional Chinese kites feature rigid or flexible bamboo frames and are covered with either silk or paper. They are designed in a variety of two- or three-dimensional shapes. Their colorful decorations are often preprinted but may also be custom painted. Common themes include natural objects, such as birds and flowers; mythical or auspicious symbols, such as the phoenix; calligraphic lettering with words of inspiration; and human figures in colorful costumes. Today, artistic kites are found in the permanent collections of many museums worldwide.
Of the many styles of Chinese kites, perhaps the most dramatic is the dragon-headed centipede. It is composed of a three-dimensional representation of a dragon's head followed by a series of silk disks tethered to each other by lengths of string. Some centipede kites are more than 40 feet long and require five or more handlers who, located at 10-foot intervals, control the strings and release the hundreds of disks in sequence.
Other kites depict flocks of flying geese in V formation. These kites sail from a bridle located at the point of the V. Additional types include three-dimensional cylindrical lanterns or barrels arranged singly or in pairs, and aerodynamic two-dimensional kites shaped like birds, dragonflies, or bees. The wingspans of kites can range from palm-sized (under 3 inches) to more than 20 feet in breadth.
Delicately painted and ingeniously shaped, Chinese kites visually unfold a compelling story of cultural richness, tradition, and variety. 
About the Photos
The kites shown were included in the 2005 exhibition The Rising Phoenix and Soaring Dragon: Contemporary Chinese Kites at the George Walter Vincent Smith Art Museum, Springfield, Massachusetts. Photos courtesy of Springfield Museums.
The museum provided the following information about kite construction: 
Most Chinese kites are made by stretching paper or silk over bamboo frames. The bamboo is harvested in autumn and dried slowly so that the finished product does not warp. Only the midsection of the bamboo, the strongest part of the stem, is used. The different parts of the frame are joined together by tenons, mortises, rings, plugs, and/or sockets. Then paper or silk is cut to shape; it may be painted before it is applied to the frame or decorated once it is pasted onto the skeleton structure. In order to ensure flight consistency, the skin of the kite is applied as smoothly as possible. For larger kites, an extra layer of paper may be pasted onto the back of the silk to strengthen the structure.

</file>

<file= AmE06_E16>

Auto Clinic June 2006: Fix Permanent Window Spots, Constantly Blown Fuses and More
A Basic Problem
Q: I have a sprinkler system in my front yard that splashes water onto my car on breezy days. I think the water droplets that evaporate from the side-window glass leave mineral deposits behind. Oddly enough, the paint doesn't seem to collect any deposits, nor do the windscreen or the back glass. I've tried every window cleaner I can imagine, but nothing gets rid of these annoying stains. My son-in-law suggested I try using hydrochloric acid to dissolve them, but that really doesn't sound like a good idea to me. How can I remove these spots? 
 
A: Bad news: They probably aren't mineral deposits. The glass has been etched by corrosion. Here's the phenomenon: Your municipal water--or whatever water supply feeds the sprinkler system--may have a high pH (it's alkaline, or a base), or you may have had some highly alkaline surface dust on your glass, which dissolved into the water. This high-pH water then slowly dried in the sun.
 
As the volume of water decreased, the concentration of minerals, and consequently the corrosive quality of the solution, increased. This could have etched the surface of the glass, leaving not a deposit, but a ring that is below the surface of the surrounding glass.
Worse news: You can't remove these rings with glass cleaners or acid. You have three options:
1. Get an auto glass shop to polish the surface of the glass.
2. Polish it yourself. This requires a felt wheel, a variable-speed electric drill and a kit of various grades of cerium oxide abrasive. Think of grinding and polishing a telescope mirror.
3. Replace the glass.
Why didn't the water also etch the windshield and backlite? They use a more durable, laminated glass. Most important, how do you prevent this from happening again? Keep the windows clean and waxed so the water doesn't pool on the surface in big spots.
And, as an aside, the only acid I would suggest you try is straight household white vinegar. Put some on a rag and don't let it dribble. Don't rinse until it has dried, to avoid getting any acid into the door.
Chasing Ghosts
Q: My 1999 Jeep Grand Cherokee has only 63,000 miles. The problem is that it keeps blowing the fuse for the interior lights and rear wiper. The fuse does not blow right away after I've put it in, and I cannot find any particular thing to do to make it blow at any given time. But it does eventually blow-within a couple of days or so. I do as much of my own mechanical work as I can, but finally out of desperation, I took the Jeep to two auto electric shops and neither one was able to find the problem.
A: I dare say if these electrical shops had long enough, they could find the short. Here's how I would approach it. Those two circuits share a fuse, so there are plenty of wires to trace. Years ago I made a blown-out fuse into an adapter for my test light by trimming away some plastic and soldering a length of wire to each of the two blades. Now I can put my 12-volt test light into the circuit instead of the fuse. Put the light up high so you can see it from anywhere in the car--hanging it over the rearview mirror works well. If the interior lights and the wiper are off, the test light will stay out. Turning on any of the lamps or the wiper motor will make the light come on, albeit dimly. Now you can start tracing the wiring harness one wire at a time. Be methodical. Wiggle the harness that goes back to the tailgate, starting at one end and moving along to the other end. When you're near the short, the test light will come on brightly, and you've just found your problem. Now all you need to do is repair the insulation on the suspect wiring, which I would guess has been scuffed by some sharp metal edge.
How Fast Was I ...
Q: I drive a 1997 Ford Escort that has an automatic transmission. Only trouble is, it will no longer shift out of First gear. This problem started at the same time the speedometer stopped working. I think it's some sort of electronic problem. What do you think?
A:I think that your Vehicle Speed Sensor (VSS) has failed (or the wiring to it is bad), so your speedometer reads 0 all the time. The transmission needs to know the vehicle's over-the-road speed to know when to shift gears properly. When the speedo is missing this piece of data (or any number of other things it needs), your drivetrain goes into limp-home mode. This leaves the transmission stuck in Second gear (not First) so you can, well, limp home or to a repair shop. So there's probably nothing wrong with the trans. Fix whatever is wrong with the VSS and the transmission should work properly again.
SERVICE TIPS
Highlights From Tech Service Bulletins 
Does the oil-pressure indicator of your 2006 Dodge or Chrysler minivan go on periodically? DCX Technical Service Bulletin (TSB) 08-052-05 REV-A says you may also have a trouble code stored for low pressure. The problem seems to be a poor ground at the oil-pressure indicator caused by a coating on the bolt that holds the indicator in place. There's a new bolt to use, and any paint needs to be scraped away to ensure a good ground.
Lexus has developed a headlamp protector kit to deter theft of HID headlamps from 2001-03 RX 300s by making the lamp assembly more difficult to remove. TSB BO003-06 specifies using a DataDot kit to mark the headlamps as registered to the VIN.
YOU NEED THIS
Turtle Wax Ice Polish
We like to wax our car every couple of months year-round. It's a pleasant hour or two, at least until we get to the part where we have to scrub all the white, powdery wax residue off the rubber moldings and black trim. Ice Polish ($16.99), from Turtle Wax, won't leave a residue. We've always said that wax has to be applied in the shade, but Ice can be applied in bright sun without streaking. It has an ultraviolet protectant to keep sunlight from fading your paint. You can even use it on bumpers, and plastic cladding and trimpieces. It's available in auto parts departments. turtlewax.com
 
A Breath of Fresh Air
Q: I have a 2004 Ford Taurus and when the heater is on, outside air comes directly into the passenger area from the outside, unfiltered, unlike when the air conditioner is on. Most of our driving is in town in heavy traffic, and we are not able to use the heater because of the pollution that comes in. This makes for some long, cold trips. When we contacted the dealership, we were brushed off with a "that's the way it is and we can't fix it." My last call to the dealership about two weeks ago was answered with, "We will have someone call you back." I got no return telephone call. I have tried calling Ford Motor Co. in Dearborn, but the people I was connected to in customer service seemingly knew less about the car than I do. I am about to run out of warranty and I am getting desperate.
A: Unfortunately, according to the service manual, it's supposed to be that way (i.e., fresh air only when in heater mode). However, it is possible to beat the system: The way around the problem is to turn on the air conditioner to maximum-which automatically uses only recirculated, rather than fresh, air-and then crank up the heat setting until the interior temperature is comfortable. I agree that this is really a stupid setup. Most other cars let you choose between fresh and recirculated air in almost every HVAC mode.
Mounting Troubles
Q: I own a 2000 Hyundai Accent GS. It has 26,000 miles on it. After an average of 2 to 3 minutes of running, if I put it in Drive it starts to vibrate. It vibrates less in Neutral. If I turn on my air conditioner, the vibration gets worse. It happens only if I am stopped-if I accelerate, it goes away. My mechanic tried to adjust it by raising the idle to 900 rpm, but it didn't help. He said I need a new fuel filter; another said I need a timing belt.
A: Start by taking a very close look at all of the rubber motor mounts for deterioration or damage. If they're all intact, loosen all the mount bolts one full turn. Then start the car, let it idle, put it in Drive and then Reverse a couple of times, then shut it off. Now tighten all the motor mounts. This should align all of the mounts so they let the engine shake a little, but won't transfer the shake to the rest of the car. I seriously doubt that the trouble is with the fuel filter or the timing belt.
Homeowners Clinic June 2006: Dimmer Switches, Shower Installation, Solar Engineering and More

Q: If I have a 100-watt bulb controlled by a dimmer switch, will I use less electricity if the switch is at a lower setting? If so, that would imply that the switch would pay for itself, eventually. Is that true?
A: Yes, modern electronic dimmers save energy. Furthermore, a dimmer that's used to control a frequently used light will almost certainly pay its own way.
Dimmer switches save energy by switching the light on and off 120 times per second, which reduces the energy moving through the circuit. The longer the switch is off, the lower the light output and the greater the energy savings. To accomplish this, the switch uses a semiconductor device called a triac (triode alternating-current switch).
Buy the best quality dimmer switch that you can find (usually in the $25 to $40 range). These switches are more durable and energy efficient than inexpensive dimmers, and their electronic circuitry eliminates radiofrequency interference that can occur when a dimmer is used on the same circuit with electronics such as an AM radio.
Although switches are comparatively simple devices, there's more to dimmer switches than meets the eye, says Al Lombardi, director of engineering for Leviton Integrated Networks and Controls, who provided a few pointers for us.
First, match the dimmer's wattage rating to the load. For example, control no more than 600 watts of lighting with a 600-watt dimmer. The exception is when you "derate" the switch (restricting its use to less than its full wattage). Derating is necessary when you need to break off a dimmer's cooling fin in order to fit the switch in a box with other dimmers. Without the extra cooling surface area, and in proximity to the other dimmers, the switch operates at a high temperature and cannot be used at its full wattage rating. Consult the manufacturer for derating instructions.
Next, match the dimmer to the type of load, such as incandescent or low-voltage lighting.
Also, don't use a dimmer switch to control a ceiling fan. Use a fan motor control or choose a dimmer/motor control combination device. And never use a dimmer to control power to an outlet or on a circuit with a shared neutral (the grounded conductor).
We live in a time when companies are swept easily into the economic trash can, either by market forces or yet another accounting scandal. If not that, they pack off their manufacturing for distant shores. Credit is due, then, to that hardy band of manufacturers that have decided to stay in the United States--especially those that thrive in this difficult environment. Channellock, the family-owned pliers and hand tool manufacturer, celebrates its 120th anniversary this year, and don't think for a minute that the company is resting on its tool-steel laurels (www.channellock.com).

</file>

<file= AmE06_E17>

Now You See It ... 
Like many U.S. cities, Washington, D.C., is booming. But capital expansion comes at a price. The city's library system may abandon its Mies-designed headquarters. The site is ripe for redevelopment, and the building's future is unclear.
IT WOULD BE HARD TO DESIGN a major public library more dismal than the Martin Luther King Jr. Memorial Library in downtown Washington, D.C. The blame lies only partly with the building itself. The MLK Library, as it is called, opened in 1972 as the city's central facility and was one of the last designs by Ludwig Mies van der Rohe. It resembles one of the architect's handsome skyscrapers, only one lopped off at the fourth floor. From the outside, on G Street, near the heart of downtown, the black building with tinted windows has a rational purity that precedes its purpose. Its colonnade spans almost a block. The building's frame is set on a 30-foot grid to allow a large, airy lobby and bright reading rooms. When it opened, the building was in many ways the classical ideal of a library made modern.
These days, the library usually seems empty. At the entrance, there are no signs to direct visitors. The lobby terrazzo is worn, and the fluorescent lights overhead are harsh. Few of the library's moving parts work correctly, owing to decades of deferred maintenance. The elevators are unreliable, and the stair halls are dark, hidden, and, like many of the corridors, depressing.
Collections like those for periodicals and black history occupy airless rooms with no natural light. The amenity of the rest rooms is best described by three words posted inside them: "No Bathing Loitering," though homeless people routinely ignore that injunction.
There isn't much that people in Washington agree on, but most concur that their public libraries are shabby, and that the MLK Library, especially, is practically unusable. Over the past decade, as cities from Nashville to Seattle have opened grand new libraries, the MLK Library's condition has only saddened while its neighborhood has revived around it.
The once-slatternly east end of Washington, where the 400,000-square-foot library sits between two major subway stations, has recently surged with sparkling blocks of new offices, hotels, and restaurants surrounding a new sports arena and two newly renovated Smithsonian museums. And the library's block of G Street, long a pedestrian plaza, has reopened and swirls with traffic. Amid this activity, the library is a holdout of the abandonment that defined Washington's years under its former mayor, Marion Barry.
Although the MLK Library is roundly seen as broken, there are sharp differences about the best way to fix it - or even if it should be fixed at all. Washington's outgoing mayor, Anthony Williams, waited about five years, until his final months in office, to acknowledge the condition of the library.
Two years ago, Williams began pushing a plan that involves closing and leasing the Mies building and using the money to help build a new library nearby on a site formerly occupied by the old Washington Convention Center. It would accompany 1.5 million square feet of offices, housing, and stores on the four-block site being developed by Hines Interests and its architect, Foster and Partners. But the mayor seems uninterested in the fate of the library building - the only Mies building in the District of Columbia.
The city's disdain for the MLK Library did not begin with Williams. The building's condition has worried local architects and preservationists at least since the mid-1990s.
In 2000, on behalf of the local American Institute of Architects chapter and at the request of the library's board of trustees, Washington architect W. Kent Cooper led a volunteer team of six other architects in conducting a detailed study of ways to renovate the Mies building.
In recent years, Cooper has worked to preserve the National Mall's open space from increased pressure to install new memorials. Cooper began focusing on the MLK building in the 1990s, when two officials with the Downtown Business Improvement District alerted him to talk of tearing it down and replacing it with an office building as downtown's redevelopment got under way.

"I got into this because I want to have a really good library," Cooper says, "but I was really trying to save the Mies building."
His study showed that the library could be retrofitted to serve the city more effectively while preserving its Miesian character. The library staff have complained that the placement of stacks near perimeter windows has caused books to bake in the sun. Cooper's plan would replace the tinted glass with new lights that would block ultraviolet rays and protect the collection.
But the principal overture of Cooper's concept is to carve out a daylit atrium at the core of the building that would serve as a new main reading room and become a social heart for the building. (The space that would be lost would be replaced in a new fifth floor that Mies intended but that was never built.)
"From the second floor up, it's a free span," making a central atrium structurally feasible, Cooper says, "which would make it kind of an interesting contemporary building of the kind Mies would be doing now if he were still alive - skylit, sustainable."
Cooper believes that renovating rather than replacing the library would be the city's most sustainable option in any case. When his plan was done, his team presented it to library and city officials. "The library board was ecstatic," Cooper recalls. But the city's then-planning director, Andrew Altman, was less so. "What we didn't know was that he was planning to move the library," Cooper says. Six years went by. "Our design got very nice press in the architectural community, and I put it on a shelf, and nobody said anything to me."
The local AIA chapter, which sponsored the renovation study, did not contact Cooper earlier this year when its directors changed position and decided to support a new library on the eve of a hearing in June before the D.C. Council's library committee. The committee was to consider legislation submitted by the mayor that would finance a new building with proceeds from a 99-year lease on the MLK building, with payment accepted in lieu of taxes from a developer, who would have to treat the older structure "in a manner that preserves the historic character of the building."
The AIA's testimony to the council supported a new library. It stated that the chapter supports preserving the exterior of the MLK Library building and "adapting its interior" to a different public use, but that it no longer favors updating the building as a library "because of its inherent limitations" in accommodating the latest information technology. Cooper says he found the building infinitely more adaptable to rewiring than many older masonry libraries that have been upgraded.
The local AIA chapter's executive director, Mary Fitch, said that the board changed position because "there are different factors involved now," namely a plausible site and palpable will to build a new library, which hadn't existed previously. As for Cooper's proposal, Fitch says, "Some people find the retrofit a little alarming. Some find it a possibility to be useful."
The AIA "made an about-face," says Robin Diener, the director of the D.C. Library Renaissance Project, a nonprofit group founded by consumer advocate Ralph Nader to rehabilitate the city's libraries. Diener supports Cooper's proposal because "it's a beautiful plan, simple, and bigger than anything the mayor is proposing." The mayor has proposed a 350,000-square-foot library - 50,000 square feet smaller than the MLK building. The city hired Polshek Partnership Architects to study the new site and at the council hearing presented a stacking diagram of a library at this summer's hearing.
Richard Levy, a Washington developer and library trustee who chairs its facilities committee, says the Polshek study was troubleshooting to determine "whether a 350,000-square-foot library would fit on a 50,000-square-foot site.  ...  whether we can get the adjacencies." Levy says it will work: "We could fit what we need and in a much more efficient way."

If the council approves a new library, the city would conduct a new search for an architect, he says. But there has been a hang-up over the cost. At the June council hearing, the library's construction director, Jeff Bonvechio, said that building a new library would cost $206 million and that restoring the MLK building would cost $40 million more.
But in September, the city's chief financial officer, Natwar Gandhi, wrote to Councilmember Kathleen Patterson, who chairs the Committee on Education, Libraries, and Recreation, that his review of a cost-comparison study by design firm PSA-Dewberry found that the costs of renovating and building anew are roughly equal, though higher than either previous estimate at $275 million.
Diener believes that the city's renovation cost figures are excessive because they account for closing the MLK building and moving the library to temporary space. One option the city has not explored, she notes, would be to keep the building open during renovation, an idea supported by Cooper and also by the architect Arthur Cotton Moore, who completed the renovation of the Library of Congress without its closing.
"But it's just not worth it," Diener says. "This isn't the Library of Congress." A more sensible option, she says, would be simply to close the MLK building during renovation. Special collections could be moved to other city libraries for use. Otherwise, she says, "there's not a book in there you can't get somewhere else."
In any case, the bricks-and-mortar debate, Diener says, ignores the "extraordinary internal problems" of the library system, which had been without a permanent director for three years until this year, when the trustees hired Ginnie Cooper, who arrived this year from the Brooklyn Public Library in New York.
Cooper has overseen construction of new libraries before. She has already prompted repairs of "little things and big things" within the Mies building - fixing leaks, painting, repairing elevators. "There are many ways in which this building I'm sitting in now is a fine and wonderful library," she says from her office in the MLK Library. Yet, she adds, "I'm excited about the opportunity for a new building." Diener says that building a new library would be throwing good money after bad, unless there are major staff reforms in the library system.
"We have evidence of incredible abuses -  people who work for [the library] and draw a salary and rarely come to work," Diener says. "It's a no-work culture. That's why we think it's stupid to put all this emphasis on buildings right now when we don't even know that they can maintain an elevator or a roof or a bathroom, and they can't deliver a reasonable level of customer service."
If Ginnie Cooper can assemble a competitive staff  - and union rules will be problematic -  then, Diener suggests, it will be time to spend some money on renovating the Mies building. And, she says, Kent Cooper's plan provides a sensible place to start.
After all these years, however, Cooper sounds resigned never to see his plan picked up again. "If they want to move the library and can get a good library, as a citizen, I don't want to pay through the nose," he says. "The Mies building really does need to stay. I hope they get a good library."
Material Witness

Products are the stuff of architecture, in a very literal sense, and yet it's fair to say that the building products industry and the profession of architecture maintain an awkward alliance. As a rule, architectural education prioritizes abstract principles over real-world applications, and in practice, the process of design generally takes precedence over the selection of products. On the other side, manufacturers are creating innovative products all the time - the kinds of things architects should be enthusiastic about - but they have difficulty getting the attention of designers and specifiers.
Enter Blaine Brownell, an associate at NBBJ's Seattle office who keeps busy in his off-hours transforming the profession's perception of building products.

</file>

<file= AmE06_E18>

Beyond Repair
I am struggling with a moral and intellectual dilemma. I am a progressive, African American academic committed to battling racial inequality and I do not want my public voice deployed against struggling communities. So I have been reluctant to admit that I am ambivalent about racialized demands to rebuild New Orleans. Displaced black citizens are insisting on return -- they want their city rebuilt as it was before Katrina -- because they reasonably fear the loss of all they have invested. But simultaneous and complete urban reconstruction is impossible. I finally choose to speak because I fear that if we focus exclusively on rebuilding we will miss an opportunity to demand another and arguably more just option: restoration. 
I want New Orleans back. I am not a native of the city, but I am grieving the enormity of its loss. We witnessed the devastation of one of the most artistically innovative, linguistically complicated, and culturally rich black communities on earth. Black people built the city's culture, staffed its hotels, harvested its resources, and developed its neighborhoods. But the investment they made was never reciprocated. Local and national governments allowed black citizens to live in segregated, vulnerable communities. When decades of government neglect and incompetence led to the catastrophic levee breaches this summer, the government allowed black people to starve in American streets while the world watched on television. 
I went to New Orleans in November and talked with dozens of survivors as they demanded justice. They were trying to carve out a new life in the devastated city because, even in ruins, New Orleans felt like home. But many also recognized that the city for which they sighed was irretrievably lost. When they told me they wanted to go home, they were really saying that they wished this had never happened. 
Our country's history is littered with the black bodies of citizens victimized by institutional racism and broken promises that went by the names "states rights," "Southern custom," "separate but equal," "selective sterilization," "meritocracy," "urban redevelopment," "war on drugs," and "welfare to work." National surveys show that Katrina tapped into this history and fueled deep racial distrust. In September I conducted a national survey with two colleagues. We found that more than 80 percent of black Americans believe the federal government's response would have been faster if most victims had been white; by contrast, only 20 percent of whites believe that. And nearly 90 percent of African Americans believe the disaster revealed continuing racial inequality, while only 38 percent of whites agree. A wide perceptual gulf separates black and white Americans on each of these issues and leaves many African Americans feeling that there is no safe place for them in America. 
I believe these respondents are correct: There is no justice in the simple right to return because the waters will rise again. Future hurricanes may increase in frequency and intensity. The natural barriers against the storms are eroding annually. The political barriers against destruction eroded long ago. There is no national will to provide adequate protection. Just a third of white Americans believe that we should spend whatever is necessary to rebuild the New Orleans. There will be no category-five levees. 
But there is another route to more certain, if less complete, justice. The citizens of New Orleans can be restored. What would restoration look like? The federal government would pay homeowners the pre-Katrina, fair-market value of their homes and land. The federal government would provide educational grants and living assistance for two full years to all Katrina survivors. The federal government would underwrite the full cost of physical and mental health care for all survivors for two full years. Rather than haphazard redevelopment of the eastern parts of New Orleans, the city should designate substantial portions of remaining, safer neighborhoods for low-income housing. All Katrina survivors would be immediately re-enfranchised and given the choice of registering as New Orleans voters for the next two years or of registering in their new communities. 
Americans are suffering because their government failed to protect them from Katrina. They deserve to be restored. Black people have sustained the loss of our motherland, our names, our histories, our languages, our freedom, and our children. In the midst of our losses we have always taken fragments of our homes with us into terrifying, forced Diasporas and with these fragments we enriched every land we touched. We made new communities. We must do it again, but this time we should be compensated for the losses we suffered. 

Bush vs. Constitution
 
President Bush's conception of his own powers is even more dangerous than his specific abuses.

Repeatedly through our history, the liberties guaranteed by the Constitution have been threatened in war by an overreacting government and then reaffirmed in peace by calmer leadership. The Alien and Sedition Acts of 1798, Lincoln's suspension of habeas corpus, the suppression of free speech during and after World War I, the internment of Japanese Americans during World War II, McCarthyism, and the wiretapping of Vietnam-era dissenters -- all of these came to be seen, once fears subsided, as violations of our freedoms and embarrassments to our heritage. 
George W. Bush's presidency is another era of overreaction at the expense of constitutional rights, but the prospects for a quick correction are not auspicious. Nothing has helped end earlier bouts of repression so much as the fact that the wars themselves came to a close, and nothing has so exposed our liberties to indefinite jeopardy as the conception of a "war on terrorism" with no end. 
The president claims an inherent power to imprison American citizens whom he has determined to be this country's enemies without obtaining a warrant, letting them hear the charges against them, or following other safeguards against wrongful punishment guaranteed by the Bill of Rights. Under his administration, the government has engaged in inhumane treatment of prisoners that amounts to torture, and when Congress passed legislation to ban such treatment, he declared he would simply interpret the law his own way. Although the Constitution says treaties are the "supreme law of the land," the president has abrogated them on his own. And, we now know, he ordered a secret program of electronic surveillance of Americans without court warrants. 
But there is something more dangerous than any of these specific abuses and usurpations, and that is the theory of inherent powers that Bush invokes to justify most of these actions and the possibility of its being effectively institutionalized by a meek Congress and, worst of all, by a deferential Supreme Court. 
My concern is analogous to the one that Justice Robert H. Jackson articulated when he dissented from the majority in Korematsu, the infamous Supreme Court decision in the midst of war (1944) upholding the constitutionality of the military order to intern Japanese Americans. A judicial construction sustaining the program, he wrote, "is a far more subtle blow to liberty than the promulgation of the order itself." For by rationalizing the order, "the Court for all time has validated the principle of racial discrimination in criminal procedure and of transplanting American citizens. The principle then lies about like a loaded weapon ready for the hand of any authority that can bring forward a plausible claim of an urgent need." 
The real danger today is the loaded weapon that Bush and his defenders are willing to put in the hands of all future presidents. Even members of his own party ought to be able to see that danger, and act to stop it. 
Americans have been slow to react to Bush's actions because the great majority of them no more identify with the Arabs who are the chief targets of the "war on terrorism" than the majority in the 1940s identified with their fellow citizens of Japanese descent. But the principles that Bush is undermining protect us all. Our Constitution divides the president's authority with Congress and the courts so as to create a system of mandatory consultations. That requirement does not make injustice and misuse of power impossible, but it makes them less likely. To survive, the system chiefly requires that if those in power cannot remember our traditions, they can at least imagine themselves out of power in the future. 
Not long ago, the Supreme Court could have been counted on to restore the checks that Bush has thrust aside. But the confirmation of the president's two nominees to the Court may now tilt it in his direction. The common element in the background of the new justices is not merely their political conservatism, but their history of support for a broad construction of executive powers. 
The combined effect of a changed court and a putative state of perpetual war could radically distort our whole constitutional framework. An increasing number of congressional Republicans have recently expressed doubts about the legality of Bush's surveillance program. The real battle, however, is about general principles applied across a wide range of policies. Of course, if the voters elect a Democratic president in 2008, perhaps even the Court's new justices may discover constitutional reasons to limit the president's inherent powers. I am not saying this is the only hope. But in a democracy, those who cannot imagine being out of power deserve another experience of being without it. 
The Limits of Limits
Instead of limiting incumbents' dollars, why not increase the amounts available to challengers?
Our long national nightmare has just begun. There is now little doubt that the next three years will bring one revelation after another about the magnitude of congressional corruption. Democrats will relish this prospect, and "reform" will be an inevitable theme of the next two election cycles. But some political scandals lead to change, while others dominate the headlines for a year and leave no trace. Why? Some of it has to do with managing the media, but it also involves offering credible solutions. Scandals without solutions simply stoke public cynicism. And it is in just such cynical soil that the seed of corrupt big-government "conservatism" was planted. 
The challenge, then, is to define the solution. The first bid, from some Republicans and from overly literal Democrats, will be "lobbying reform." Keeping lobbyists at arm's length should be a matter of personal responsibility on the part of elected officials, reinforced by clear rules. But the idea that the large-scale wrongdoing we've witnessed recently could have been prevented by banning lobbyists from paying for lunch or trips is laughable. 
The problem isn't who pays for lunch. It's who pays for politics. Elected officials with enough integrity can skip the meals and trips. But none of them can avoid the lobbyists who control, directly or indirectly, much of the money that pays for elections. 
The more far-reaching proposals for reform acknowledge this fact and call for limits on contributions from lobbyists, limits on fund-raisers hosted by lobbyists, and limits on independent political committees. Some of these provisions are wise, some unconstitutional, others easily evaded. And what they have in common is: They are all based on limits. 
But limits have reached their own limits. Almost four years after passage of the McCain-Feingold law, its modest limits on soft money and certain issue ads are still contested, or, in the case of political use of the Internet, seem to have spun down a regulatory rabbit hole. Unless the Supreme Court this year decides to uphold a Vermont law imposing mandatory limits on spending -- which would be a surprise -- limits on contributions will coexist with unlimited spending, which inevitably creates further pressure and incentive to find ways around the existing limits. As long as we have a Constitution and capitalism, there will be ways. 
Limits address only one side of the relationship between political money and corruption. There's another dimension where there isn't enough money in politics. And that's where the connection to the current scandals is strongest and where real solutions are possible. 
* * * 
Let's walk this scandal back: as George W. Bush says, there is only one "accountability moment" for an elected official -- Election Day.

</file>

<file= AmE06_E19>

Exploring Exterior Design 
Garden Design hosted a panel of experts to address issues in exterior design at the 2006 International Casual Furnishings and Accessories Market 
As a media sponsor of the 2006 International Casual Furnishings and Accessories Market at Chicago's Merchandise Mart, Garden Design magazine hosted a panel of experts to address issues in exterior design. Moderated by style editor Donna Dorian, the panel included Craig Bergmann, an expert plantsman with 25 years design experience; Janice Feldman, founder and CEO of Janus et Cie in Los Angeles, an upscale outdoor furnishings dealer with seven American showrooms; Jason Champion, owner and creative director of Design Kollection, a dealer in innovative outdoor furniture lines based in Florida; and Guillermo Castellanos of Evanston, Ill., a landscape architect and designer of the 2006 Cottage Living Idea Home garden. They discussed the distinctions between the roles of interior, exterior and landscape designers, and the use of new materials and products in the garden.
Exterior design experts say designers and retailers competing in the outdoor living rush face a new and challenging frontier: a market populated with Google-savvy consumers. Technology has brought about advances in outdoor décor  durable fabrics that shrug off the elements and furniture made of sustainable materials, for example  but the Information Age has also born the Internet and computer search engines. Potential exterior design customers are scouring the world for garden and patio products and inspiration without ever leaving their own back yards.
"You can get anything if you know how to Google," Craig Bergmann, a top Chicago area garden designer, said during a panel discussion on outdoor living trends. "Think of all the options available just in umbrella bases, for example."
 
Nowadays, when it comes to designing exterior spaces, "the sky's the limit, not a set of glass sliding doors," said Champion.
 
Feldman noted there is a niche burgeoning between the field of interior designers and that of landscape architects, who "typically don't have the same education about how we live in spaces," she said. "And while there is a crossover, I see a tremendous business opportunity for people who choose to focus on exterior design."
 
Castellanos said that outdoor living spaces should be considered "extensions of the house" and he noted that landscape architectsthe professionals called in for grounds planning and not usually furniture and fabric choicesshould not be thrown out of the outdoor room design mix because they bring with them historical and even urban-planning perspectives.
 
Bergmann agreed. He advocated a team approach to exterior design. "If I don't know something, I'd certainly bring in someone who does," he said.

The Greenest Blocks in Brooklyn 
The Brooklyn Botanic Gardens announces its winner for the 2006 Greenest Block in Brooklyn  
 
+ zoom
photo: Brooklyn Botanic Garden
Brooklyn Botanic Garden (BBG), in partnership with the Brooklyn Borough President and Independence Community Foundation, announced the winners of the 12th Annual Greenest Block in Brooklyn Contest. More than 255 blocks entered this year's 12th Annual Greenest Block in Brooklyn Contest, making it the most successful ever. The program serves to promote conservation and community through gardening activities.
First Place in the Residential Category is E. 25th Street Block between Clarendon and Avenue D. This year's winning block is no stranger to victory, having placed first in the 2004 Greenest Block in Brooklyn Contest.
For a full list of winners and for more information about the contest, visit bbg.org/greenbridge. 
According to Brooklyn Borough President Marty Markowitz, "The Greenest Block in Brooklyn is a contest in which everyone is a winner and Brooklyn is the biggest winner of all! It is a great reason every year to come together with neighbors to cultivate those yards and community gardens, hang those window boxes, and proudly display that every Brooklyn community is fertile ground for natural beauty. In more ways than one, New York City's "greenest borough", Brooklyn is growing!"  And Marilyn Gelber, executive director of the Independence Community Foundation, the founding sponsor of the competition said, "For over a decade, the Greenest Block in Brooklyn contest has built stronger communities by uniting neighbors under a common goal: to create a greener, healthier, and more beautiful Brooklyn. Independence is proud to continue helping the communities of Brooklyn to achieve this goal."
"This was my first year to serve as a judge in the contest and as the new kid on the block, so to speak, I was just amazed at the sheer beauty and sophisticated design characteristics  that reflect the diversity of our Brooklyn neighborhoods. I salute the hard work, talent, and sense of community that are such vital elements of this contest," said Scot Medbury, President of Brooklyn Botanic Garden.
Brooklyn GreenBridge, the community horticulture program of the Brooklyn Botanic Garden, is designed to share the knowledge and resources of BBG with neighborhoods throughout Brooklyn. Working with block associations, community gardens, community centers, and other groups, Brooklyn GreenBridge promotes conservation and community through gardening activities.  "Everyone on our block was thrilled to have won the title of Greenest Block in Brooklyn, yet again" announced Hazel Foster, Greening Coordinator for the winning residential block. "Our block won the first place honor in 2004, and it changed our lives  for the better!  So it was no surprise that we agreed to dedicate ourselves to continue to practice what we learned and enter the contest as soon as we could. With help from Brooklyn Botanic Garden's Brooklyn GreenBridge program, we learned about good, smart gardening and in the process also found that participating in the Greenest Block is about more than winning a contest; it is also about a lifetime dedicated to building stronger, greener communities for future generations."
A ceremony recognizing the winners and entrants, hosted by BBG, Brooklyn Borough President Marty Markowitz, and the Independence Community Foundation took place on September 21, 2006. The Greenest Block in Brooklyn Contest is a project of Brooklyn Botanic Garden's Brooklyn GreenBridge Program and Borough President Marty Markowitz, and is sponsored by Independence Community Foundation. First Prize includes a $300 check and two coveted plants from Brooklyn Botanic Garden's Signature Plant collection for each top residential and commercial block winner.
 
 
Founded in 1910, Brooklyn Botanic Garden (BBG) is an independent nonprofit cultural institution committed to education, research, and the display of horticulture. BBG serves communities in New York City and internationally through its world-class gardens, extensive research collections, and numerous educational and community programs. Situated on 52 acres in the heart of Brooklyn, the Garden is home to over 10,000 types of plants and hosts more than 700,000 visitors annually.   Brooklyn Botanic Garden is open from 8:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. Tuesday through Friday, and from 10:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. on Saturday, Sunday and holidays through September. The Garden is closed on Mondays except on public holidays. Admission is $5.00 for adults (16 and older) and $3.00 for senior citizens (65 and older). Children under 16, all school groups, garden members, and Frequent Visitor Pass holders are admitted free at all times. Seniors are admitted free all-day Friday, and the Garden is free to the public on Saturdays until noon, and on Tuesdays. Visitor entrances are at Flatbush Avenue and at the Parking Lot Gate at 900 Washington Avenue, and Eastern Parkway. By subway, take the 2 or 3 train to Eastern Parkway or the B (weekdays) or Q train to Prospect Park. By bus, use the B41, B47, B48 or B71. Parking is available at 900 Washington Avenue for a fee. For more information call 718/623-7200. Additional information is also offered online at bbg.org
The 2005 Way Hot 100: American Natives 
Interest in selected forms of native plants has never been greater. They're the obvious choice for creating gardens that look beautifully in place. 
 
Amsonia tabernaemontana 'Blue Ice' (Blue star) Longer blooming than the species, the cool blue flowers continue for four to six weeks from mid- to late spring. Only 14 inches tall, it can even be used as a ground cover. Zones 4 to 9.
Aster oblongifolius 'October Skies' (Dwarf aromatic aster) One of the last things to bloom in the glowing autumn garden, a compact plant with vibrant blue flowers and fragrant foliage. This is a "true plant for the designer...with an extravagant look and lots of flowers." (DHS) Zones 5 to 8.
Athyrium filix-femina 'Dre's Dagger' (Lady fern) Thin, sharply pointed fronds have a crisscross pattern of leaflets. The crested tips continue to grow through the season, creating lush, frilly tassels. To 18 inches tall. Zones 4 to 9.
Cercis canadensis 'Appalachian Red' (Redbud) This redbud cultivar "shouts when it opens" from dark reddish-purple buds to "glow-in-the-dark neon" magenta flowers, clustered thickly along the bare gray branches. (TB) Flowers later than most forms. Zones 4 to 9.
Clematis viorna (Leather flower) This delicate-looking clematis is easy to grow in part shade. Urn-shaped flowers with thick, leathery petals, pinkish purple at the base and white at the tips, appear in late spring and bloom for several weeks, followed by golden, downy, Medusa-like seed heads. Zones 4 to 9.
Coreopsis 'Crème Brulée' (Tickseed) Similar to 'Moonbeam', this selection is more vigorous with longer-lasting blossoms. The soft gold flowers occur all along the stem, not just at the tips, appearing earlier and continuing longer (into fall) than its popular cousin. Zones 4 to 9.
Echinacea Big Sky TM Series (Coneflower) Hybrids between E. purpurea and E. paradoxa, the first introductions by Saul Nurseries are 'Sunrise' (yellow) and 'Sunset' (orange). They offer huge flowers in luscious colors, light fragrances ('Sunrise' has a "honey-rose scent"), a sturdy plant form and a longer bloom period. (RS) Zones 4 to 9.
Heuchera 'Peach Flambé' One of the latest in a line of eye-popping heucheras, the bright peach-colored foliage with infusions of red really "blows people away." When backlit, "I just cannot explain the glow." (DH) Zones 4 to 9.
Hibiscus 'Plum Crazy' (Rose mallow) Another in an outstanding series from the Fleming Brothers of Nebraska, this close relative of 'Kopper King' hibiscus has the same wine-colored foliage but darker flowers ("where rose meets purple") that reach 10 inches across and a purple eye zone. (DHS) Compact and shrubby, 3 to 5 feet tall. Zones 5 to 9.
Hydrangea White Dome TM (Smooth hydrangea) "Like a smooth hydrangea on steroids" (PM), strong stems support the 6- to 10-inch, dome-shaped, creamy white blooms without flopping under the weight, as 'Annabelle' hydrangea often does. Large leaves have a thick, substantial texture and white undersides. Zones 4 to 7.
Liriodendron tulipifera  Majestic Beauty TM (Tulip poplar) Unusual square-ended leaves are marked with yellow or greenish-yellow margins. A fast-growing shade tree with a signature straight trunk, to 80 feet. Flowers are tulip-shaped, chartreuse brushed with day-glo orange. Fall color is golden-yellow. Zones 4 to 9.
Lonicera sempervirens 'John Clayton' (Coral honeysuckle) Unlike other yellow forms of the native honeysuckle, this heavy bloomer, selected by the Virginia Native Plant Society, continues to flower for a long time?from June through November. Good orange-red berries in the fall, very mildew resistant. Zones 4 to 8.
Lysichiton americanus (Swamp lantern) A Northwest native with the intriguing names of swamp lantern and Western skunk cabbage. Large, yellow scoop-shaped flowers emerge in very early spring. Enormous 3-foot leaves follow. A dramatic plant for a boggy location. Zones 5 to 8.
Opuntia ellisiana 'Burbank Spineless' (Prickly pear) Imagine the durability and drama of a cactus minus those pesky spines! With its "highly sculptural effect," it "makes a great focal point in a xeriscape planting, surrounded with other drought-tolerant but more delicate-looking plants." (PB) Zones 7 to 10.
Penstemon 'Sour Grapes' Large, tubular, juicy purple flowers cluster thickly at the ends of pink-tinged stems that will mingle with nearby plants. Bright green narrow leaves are evergreen. Zones 6 to 9.
Phlox paniculata 'Laura' (Summer phlox) Large heads of bright purple flowers with white, star-shaped eyes make 'Laura' a standout in the summer border. Mildew-resistant, dark green leaves line the sturdy 3-foot stems. Zones 4 to 8.

</file>

<file= AmE06_E20>

Anger Management
Nobody enjoys being confronted by angry clients, but avoiding them "is absolutely the worst thing you can do," particularly if you're in their home nearly every day, says Beverly Koehn, a consultant to remodelers and builders. "The minute you start avoiding them, you dig yourself into a deeper hole."
Rather than hoping the problem will go away, show you care about their concerns, Koehn says. Her shorthand strategy is called LAUGH:
Listen: "Let them vent," Koehn says. Turn off your cell phone, take notes, and offer your undivided attention. Never interrupt or object.
Acknowledge: Make eye contact. Nod your head, soften your stance, and otherwise use positive body language.
Understand: "Don't allow your own emotions to control the situation," Koehn says, particularly if the two of you have clashed before. Try to see things from their point of view.
Five suggestions/options: Apologize for the inconvenience, and ask how they'd recommend moving forward. Never make demands or use the excuse of company policy.
Humanize the situation: "Remember, we're all human beings," Koehn says. "Tell yourself that this is one of the nicest people you've ever met, and you're dedicated to responding to their concerns."
If the client remains angry and becomes abusive, don't engage them by saying nobody talks to you that way. Instead, Koehn says, make a softening statement and define your parameters: you want to work this out, but you won't participate in that kind of language. Suggest a five-minute break, and exit professionally. They'll probably return ashamed and cooperative.
These strategies work for all field staff, including laborers and others in day-to-day contact with homeowners. Pass them on.
Double Duty

The owners of this Madison, Wis., Cape Cod, wanted a second garage and a screened porch that was attached to the house (to replace the screened gazebo out in the yard). Designers at Architectural Building Arts (ABA) could have converted the existing one-car garage into a screened porch and added a detached two-car garage. "But that would mean taking down three big oak trees," ABA owner Steve Larson says. "The clients didn't want that."
Designer Stephanie Mueller came up with a novel approach that creates flexible space. Since the owners didn't mind leaving their car outside during the warm months, ABA added a 12- by 20-foot garage beside the existing garage, which would double as a screened porch. The only glitch was getting the zoning board to issue a variance because laws allowed only for a detached garage. This would be impossible because the back of the house is only 3 feet from the property line. Board members allowed the attached garage once they saw ABA's solution.

When is a garage not a garage? When it's a screened porch. The garage door is hidden under a false ceiling. Screen panels, stored below the small, upper window on the side, are easily bolted in place. The solution satisfies clients and zoning board.
The new garage/screened porch combo has a brick floor to give it a finished look. To cover stains from the car, the owners use a rubber mat in the summer that rolls up in the winter. Single-pane storm windows with divided lights pull out and can easily be replaced by screens. In front, the garage door slides up into a false ceiling so that people inside don't see it when they look up. Three screens connect to a framed wall that is attached by throw bolts in the top, bottom, and sides. The back is a glass wall in winter and three screens, as in the front, in warmer months. The wall system, glass, and screens can be stored in space created above the garage. "We got our clients their summer eating place, their winter car storage, and we saved their oaks," Larson says.
Security Resolutions

Even though we're already into 2006, it's never too late to work on your game plan. Here are three resolutions for data safety and security for the new year. I'll expand on these topics throughout the coming year, so stay tuned.
Backup, Backup, Backup: Without good backups (and a plan to recover what you backed up) all bets are off. Ask the businesses wiped out by natural disasters last year.
Resolve to back up your data every day and keep a copy off site  -  preferably way off site, as in a data center in a different part of the country. Online services like Connected.com (www.connected.com) and Xdrive (www.xdrive.com) fit the bill for remodelers.
Connected.com is strictly backup, whereas Xdrive gives smaller contractors a "hard drive in the sky" you can use day to day.
Think "Rapid Recovery": Remodelers spend way too much time and money diagnosing and fixing computer problems. Software tools like GoBack (www.symantec.com/goback) give you and your users the ability to turn back the clock when they goof.
For more serious problems, Acronis TrueImage (www.acronis.com) allows you to "image" and restore an entire hard drive in less time than your "computer guy" takes to pick up the phone.
Understand the real threats online in 2006: A pimply kid "hacking" into individual computers is so last century. Today's bad guys are big business. They trick you into installing all manner of "malware" (worms, viruses, spyware), which "phone home," turning unsuspecting users into an army of zombies to do their dirty work: sending SPAM, "phishing" corporate networks, or the latest scam  -  generating phony "clicks" to rip-off legitimate online advertisers.
Your best defenses against this kind of hostile takeover? Get behind a quality router/firewall, scan your systems daily using up-to-date anti-virus and anti-spyware software, and, seriously  -  buy your kids their own computer. The Web sites teens and tweens frequent are the worst offenders.  - Joe Stoddard is a process/technology consultant to the building industry. Reach him at jstoddard@mountainconsulting.com.

Got It? Flaunt It.

I use 10% of what Excel will do, and the average person probably uses 2%," says Ed Castle, owner of Ed Castle Construction, a design/build firm in Kensington, Md. Castle creates fairly sophisticated spreadsheets and uses the software, which is a part of Microsoft Office, as a project manager system. He has eliminated what he calls "redundant clerical work" by inputting administrative information such as name and address of homeowners and suppliers only once but having it appear on all necessary documents.
At Donatelli Castillo Builders in San Jose, Calif., Excel is used for everything from estimating, creating financial reports, organizing historical workers compensation information, and reconciling the year-end audit for insurance and vacation days to collating results on employee reviews, job progress notes, and reports to the National Association of the Remodeling Industry (NARI) board.
Kirk Van Camp at Mark IV Builders, Bethesda, Md., says he uses Excel every day in some capacity  -  for preliminary and contract budgets as well as for tracking and monthly flash reports. "It's a powerful program," Van Camp says.
Getting from a simple spreadsheet to charts, graphs, and "what if" calculations takes some time and patience, but it's worth the effort, and, once learned, using the software is not difficult. Van Camp suggests reading Estimating With Microsoft Excel: Unlocking the Power for Home Builders by Jay Christofferson. "It comes with a CD and shows you a lot of tips and tricks, how to make macros and set up formulas," Van Camp says.
Chris Donatelli says his staff learned Excel by "seat of the pants and the help menu," which is a good resource that links you to the Microsoft Office Web site. There are also various Web sites, as well as local colleges and high schools that offer tutorials, often free. Dave Alpert of Continuum Marketing, an expert user who works with many remodeling companies, suggests sitting down with someone using it for a similar business. However you learn best, it's worth spending the time to get the most out of something you most likely already have on hand.
These charts show what Kirk Van Camp, estimator for Mark IV Builders, Bethesda, Md., calls a "30,000-foot-view" of your business. An administrative assistant creates them using Microsoft Excel 2003, included with Microsoft Office 2003 Professional Edition. To create a chart: Import from a database or manually enter the information you want to chart into a blank Excel worksheet. Then, insert a second empty worksheet and use the "Insert > Chart" command to create a chart. When specifying the data range for the second chart, use the data you entered in the first worksheet. Charting leads, design agreements, and contract signings helps Mark IV visualize sales and marketing strategies' effectiveness. Including a data table with your chart offers more specific information that doesn't distract from the "big picture" view.
Breakdowns, such as where leads and sales come from, give insight into fine tuning marketing and sales processes. Separate pages avoid clutter and confusion. Excel also integrates with other Microsoft products, such as Microsoft Streets and Trips  -  which was used to generate the map  -  and Microsoft SQL Server, the database software Mark IV used to track this data.
Profile: Keith Alward
Good parents encourage their children to welcome responsibility, think for themselves, and take risks. Good employers do the same with employees. Having nurtured some of his 36 employees through 20-plus years of progressive growth and responsibility, remodeler Keith Alward (Big50 2002) believes in the value of autonomy and self-reliance. "You give them something to do with the faith that they can do it," explains the owner of Alward Construction, Berkeley, Calif. "Then you stand back and let them do their best. You're not there to micromanage."
Alward's commitment to personal development for employees is rooted in his own. A product of the working class, he worked in construction for years before forming his company. Along the way, he got a Ph.D. in developmental psychology. These varied experiences and insights, Alward says, "gave me an understanding of how difficult work is, and how intelligence makes its way into even simple work like hauling or stacking. There's a real dignity in physical labor," he says. "It's very honorable and should be nourished."
One way Alward nourishes labor is by assigning a graduated skill structure to field employees, whom he calls builders. The general goal, he says, "is for everybody to matriculate up the ladder," from apprentice to master.
Excellent pay and benefits attract and retain field crews, which operate autonomously. Alward also encourages continuing education and pays "for anything that increases knowledge related to work," including language classes for employees just learning English.
He personally conducts performance reviews for new hires at three and six months and for all employees annually. "I'm looking for signs that they've been growing and developing," Alward says.
He also fosters a family spirit, which means recognizing employees' families as well. The company's annual holiday party is held at his home and attended by employees and their families along with architects, clients, subcontractors, and other company friends. "We buy and wrap gifts for all the kids, and I quietly and surreptitiously hand out bonuses," which sometimes top $4,000. "It's a lovely party," he says. "I want everybody to be treated with integrity."
Second Look: Dana and Scott Jurak

After 25 years of remodeling in Plano, Texas, Dana and Scott Jurak (Big50 1991) have left the United States for the crystal beaches of Turks and Caicos. After visiting the Caribbean islands during a scuba diving trip, the couple built a two-unit villa on the island of Providenciales. Their plan was to pursue their scuba diving hobby and rent it to other vacationers. But the pull of the islands was strong. "We decided to take on an adventure and try our hands at doing the same thing that we have been doing here for so long ... on an island," Dana says.
Scott moved to the island first, almost one year ago, to set up a new company and build a townhouse that would serve as their home and a model home for their 19-unit speculative development.
Meanwhile, back in Texas, Scott's brother Dean has taken over as president of Jurak Remodeling.

</file>

<file= AmE06_E21>

(During Easter, the brood expanded to include a bunny rabbit and chickens.) "We had two terraces, and when we played handball the ball sometimes went over." And since their balconies overlooked the St. Moritz's upstairs ballroom, the girls could always get an excellent view of the banquets and weddings held there. Because Wendy and her sister were the only kids in the hotel, they made friends with the staff. It all sounds very, very Kay Thompson, except for a few details: Wendy was offended by Eloise's freshness and oppositional behavior, and, unlike the book's heroine, she cohabited with her biological family.
Why live in a hotel with a young family?
"My father liked having a late dinner, around nine or nine-thirty, and he enjoyed room service," Carduner says. "It worked for his routine."
In the 1950's and 60's, the St. Moritz had Manhattan's only elite ice-cream parlor, and Wendy enjoyed enough independence to go downstairs all by herself to Rumpelmayer's, where the soda fountain would provide her with a chocolate malted in a tall glass lined with whipped cream.
"It was great! The apartment was small enough to keep the family together, but big enough for us to have our own space," she says. Then, too, Carduner adds, Central Park was the ultimate backyard, contributing to the expansive feeling.
Life became more restrained for the girls when their parents bought an apartment at the Sherry-Netherland, on Fifth Avenue. Her mother decorated in beiges and various kings named Louis. "The dog was not allowed in our public rooms and we were not allowed to use fountain pens," Carduner says. Naturally, that law was just too tempting not to test. Right away, "I spilled ink all over the light-blue carpet. I thought, God has punished me for breaking the house rule. It was like living in a museum. My sister and I disliked it."
One woman on the board of the cooperatives at the luxurious Pierre hotel, up the block from the Sherry-Netherland, raised her children there and doesn't recommend it.
"Kids shouldn't have to be that well behaved all the time," she says. "Let them be kids." Thirty-three years ago, when she moved into the Pierre, "it was larky for the boys to live in a hotel. We moved there from a large duplex uptown that needed lots of staff. We entertained, and it wasn't worth the agony of changing help in those days. We wanted to get out from under the burden of the lifestyle - which is now obsolete." Even then, the Pierre was filled with cooperative apartments. Today, there are 80 co-op units and 202 "transient keys," as they say in hotel lingo.
"This is the best apartment hotel," the woman says with some authority. "You're not really stuck for help. A lot of people don't have private help in the building." Once a month the apartment dwellers get a heavy-cleaning crew to polish chandeliers and mirrors, wash windows - the works. Otherwise, on a daily basis, there is maid service, paper products provided, bed and bath linens, and turndown service. "When you walk in from a long, weary trip, your place is clean, your bed is turned down, and you call for food and the newspaper." It does sound heavenly.
Jeff and Lori Shapiro have lived downtown since the mid eighties, before the Battery Park neighborhood became particularly child-friendly. After they started having kids, they decided the neighborhood had a great family feel, "like the suburbs in the city," Lori says. They moved into the Ritz-Carlton Battery Park condominium. Jeff, a dentist, is on the board, and he just loves it here. "It's very heavily staffed compared to an apartment building," he says. The Shapiros take advantage of concierge service ("They go through Ritz training," Jeff notes), borrow tables and chairs, use the valet parking, and enjoy Sunday brunches at 2 West, the hotel's restaurant.
To the Shapiro children - Luke, 14, Jake, 11, and Sophia, 9 - "it's just an apartment building, not a hotel," according to Luke. And indeed, the place is divided up like a Manhattan apartment (with big picture windows looking out on the Statue of Liberty, creating the sense of more space than exists indoors). It also feels more like an apartment building than a hotel in that there are three other families living there who send kids to the same Brooklyn private school the Shapiro kids attend. Ta-da! Their New York City sense of community remains intact. Lori has the last word. "By living in a hotel," she says, "I'm getting ready for assisted living."
It's no surprise that the writer and Lawyer Michael Rips (author of The Face of a Naked Lady: An Omaha Family Mystery) has hotels coursing through his veins. His great-grandmother owned the Miller Hotel in Omaha, which was actually a brothel set up for the cattle herders who came to the city's stockyards and slaughterhouses. Okay: in fact, Rips's great-grandmother was the madam of the Miller, and his father grew up there. On his mother's side, there were actual hotels (as opposed to disguised houses of pleasure), in Kansas City and Chicago. "So when I - quote - finally settled down," Rips recalls over coffee at an Italian café in the West Village, "I moved into the Regency, where God would live if he had the money." He pauses. "It was an addictive experience" - one he savored and stretched to five years.
After Rips married Sheila Berger, the couple moved to the Hotel Chelsea because, Rips says, "Sheila is an artist and wanted to be downtown amongst other artists." The contrast between the gleaming Regency on Park Avenue and the more, um, bohemian Chelsea on West 23rd Street could not be more pronounced. And yet.
Rips describes an "admission process," which begins and ends with proprietor Stanley Bard. "You need a recommendation. It's unpredictable. We all represent different aspects of Stanley's mind, and we all fit together." Interestingly, in complete contrast to my earlier presumptions, the Chelsea, battered and colorful, is one of the only hotels - and a non-condo hotel at that - with more than one family raising kids. At the moment, there are three families with young children walking through the lobby of the place where Sid Vicious, Virgil Thompson, Patti Smith, and Andy Warhol used to live. Why didn't Michael and Sheila relocate when their daughter, Nicolaïa, was born?"We were so anesthetized by that point, we didn't consider leaving," he says. The families are all interconnected, through ages, schools, or the novelty of growing up Chelsea.
Some people who live in Manhattan hotels might refer to the lobby dwellers of the Chelsea as "characters," but the lobby life holds enormous appeal for the Ripses. "We always add fifteen to twenty minutes lobby time whenever we have to be somewhere," Michael says. He describes how his daughter was once assigned a paper at school on the British sculptor Andy Goldsworthy. Neither Michael nor Sheila was familiar with his work, so they suggested that Nicolaïa go downstairs and do some reconnaissance with the lobby people. "In half an hour she had pages of notes," Rips enthuses. "[Our apartment] is probably too small for us, but the trade-off is being part of the tribe of the people who are here. It's like a MacDowell Colony or a dorm, fostering collaborations."

One Regency resident prefers not to be identified, because he feels that women think there's something a little sleazy about a bachelor living in a hotel. "I'm not the guy who wanted the hotel life," he says. "I'm pathetically the guy who planned to stay here three to four months and now it's been years. I screwed up my real estate life, so to me it's an apartment with lots of extra doormen. I hardly ever use room service. To me, New York is all room service." It is notable that "room service" tops almost everyone's list of desirable hotel amenities, even though every imaginable type of cuisine at every level of taste and expensiveness is available through neighborhood delivery. Maybe it's the removal of room service - the not having to clean up afterward - that really whets everybody's appetite.
Of all the properties where James McBride has worked, the Carlyle is the first he's moved into with his wife, Alexandra, and six-year-old son, Sterling. On the road to being the famed hotel's managing director, McBride has made stops at Ritz-Carltons in Pasadena, Washington, D.C., and Hong Kong, as well as at the Grosvenor House in London.
"I never take the approach that this is my right. This is my job - I'm here to take care of my guests," he says over tea in his co-op apartment. "The key is it's a very residential building, with only two transient rooms on this floor."
There are 60 co-op apartments at the Carlyle, and 180 hotel accommodations, set in a family-oriented uptown neighborhood. Alexandra says that at first she was "concerned about how few kids lived at this hotel. It made me big on manners. Sterling greets the doormen, the elevator men by name. He visits the chef." McBride adds, "Sterling is a part of our success. The staff likes him and is watching him grow up. It's great for playdates; everyone wants to come here. Kids love the garbage compacting and visit the walk-in freezer. They see the workings of the back of the house and leave with shampoo samples." (Kiehl's, since you wondered.)
Sitting in their tasteful apartment, which blends hotel furniture with their personal belongings (all the art is the McBrides'), the family emphasizes their gratitude at getting to live in the storied hotel. "We know where our place is, completely. I know it's not my entitlement," the South Africanborn McBride says. "The hotel business is a lifestyle. We entertain four to five times a week. If I'm entertaining guests downstairs and Tony Blair arrives, I have to leave the table and greet him."
Alexandra notes that on "Sunday nights, as a treat, we do room service, but [otherwise] we keep cooking for Sterling. When Sterling was little, we stayed in a bed-and-breakfast in Kent, Connecticut, and Sterling couldn't believe there was no room service."
Young-man-on-the-move Joey Betesh and his wife, Sally, an NYU freshman, love living at the Mandarin Oriental hotel in Manhattan's Time Warner Center - though they look more like kids who get to stay in Mom and Dad's pied-à-terre. The two grew up as neighbors in the FlatbushOcean Park section of Brooklyn, always enjoying coming into "the city." Married 11 months, at 31 and 19 they are the youngest couple at the Mandarin. The way was paved by Joey's father. "He gave us the money to invest in a city apartment," Sally explains.
She's decorated the apartment herself, in a contemporary style: "Our friends love it. They hang out here. It's cute." I wonder whether her apartment is a condo. "Is it?I don't know. Ask Joey. This is the North Tower. Jay-Z lives above us." Joey thinks one advantage of hotel living is "you never know who you're going to see. We've seen Cameron Diaz and Justin Timberlake in the elevator, and bumped shoulders with Brad Pitt. They are constantly redecorating and fixing up, like they had to the time Paris Hilton put her candy wrapper in a plant. Because it is a hotel, there are new people coming in every day, so there's a pressure to keep the maintenance up. We once cooked dinner and called for a housekeeper at 10 p.m. because we didn't feel like doing the dishes."
Sally jumps up to show the table and tablecloth the building sent to their apartment "in two minutes" for a luncheon she was hosting the next day.
For the Beteshes, this is the dream come true. "We used to come to the city and say, 'Imagine living here.'" But because they live on a high floor - the condos start on 64 - the couple leaves every Friday afternoon in order to be with their families in Brooklyn by sundown. They never take elevators on the Sabbath - not even at the Mandarin Oriental.

</file>

<file= AmE06_E22>

PAUL CLIFFORD NELSON WAS born an January 21st, 1936, in the small town of Warren, Minnesota, population 1,678, to second-gene ration Swedish immigrants. His father, Clifford, ran a Ford, Mercury and Lincoln dealership, sold Case machinery and owned a wheat farm. His mother, Clara, maintained the home. They were both devout members of the Evangelical Covenant Church, a Protestant sect formed by Swedish immigrants in the late nineteenth century, and they dragged Paul to church on Wednesday nights and often twice on Sundays.
"His folks didn't approve of him going to movies," says Doris Hoper, the Warren High School homecoming queen, to whom he was married from 1959 to 1973. "They didn't approve of going dancing. They were good people, but what else was there to do in Warren?"
On a trip to North Dakota, Nelson began his record collection by stealing his first two singles: Hank Williams recording as Luke the Drifter and Chet Baker performing with the Gerry Mulligan Quartet.
Nelson also took an interest in writing in high school. He started penning stories for the school newspaper, The Chronicle, then moved on to editing the school yearbook and writing sports stories for the local'Warren paper. After graduating, Nelson won a scholarship to St, Olaf College in Northfield, Minnesota, but transferred in sophomore year to the University of Minnesota, chiefly because he wanted to be in a bigger city.
One afternoon in his rooming house, a freshman by the name of Jon Pankake happened to hear Nelson talking about APBA, a baseball-statistics game involving cards and dice. Also an APBA fan, Pankake decided to introduce himself.
Pankake remembers opening the door to find a clean-shaven sophomore with a crew cut, glasses and jeans, "I would describe it as the ideal college friendship," Pankake says. "You come from a small town in Minnesota, you're the smartest guy in your class, you have aspirations that no one else shares, and you're all alone in the world. Then you come to the University of Minnesota and meet someone in the exact same position, and you stay up all night talking about movies and music and ideas."
They found their tastes to be similar, in music  -  Peggy Lee, Julie London and Chet Baker  -  as well as in film. "There was a time when we were very into Jimmy Dean," Pankake says. "Paul had even adopted the red nylon jacket that Jimmy Dean wears in Rebel "Without a Cause, and he had somehow gotten a life-size cutout of Dean from Giant to put up in his room. That was quite spooky at the time."
The two soon immersed themselves in the world of writing, criticism and interpretation surrounding the culture they loved. They got into auteur theory and began reading John McCarten, who reviewed movies for The New Yorker. It was here that Nelson's critical tastes were shaped. "[McCarten] was a very give-'em-hell kind of reviewer," Pankake says. "He would roast the Hollywood standard cotton-candy product and hold out for the good reviews for John Ford and Howard Hawks."
For fun, after watching a new film. Nelson and Pankake would write reviews for each other to read, trying to, as they put it, "smoke out the honest filmmakers from the people who just did product." They didn't necessarily have any professional writing aspirations  -  until Pete Seeger came to campus to perform.
Nelson at the time was working part-time at a local record distributor. One of its many accounts was Folkways, and, itching to dive deeper into folk, Nelson took home Harry Smith's Anthology of American Folk Music. For the weeks that followed, it was practically all Nelson and Pankake listened to and talked about.
"I was never able to understand why that strange music got a hold of us," Pankake says. "But we went from thinking Peggy Lee was a great singer to thinking Vera Hall was a great singer in less than a year."
When they heard that Seeger was going to be performing at the University of Iowa, they drove to the show. Afterward, they sought out Seeger and told him they were thinking of starting a magazine about folk music. Seeger replied, "It's a free country  -  you can do what you want."
So in 1960, the pair self-published the small newsletter that would make their names, The Link Sandy Review. "We always joked that The Little Sandy could have as easily been a fanzine about movies," Pankake says. "We like to think that we flipped a coin at some point and folk music lost."
Nelson stayed after hours in the record distribution offices where he worked to run off the first edition of 300 copies on the Gestetner mimeograph machine; later editions were assembled in the basement of friend and folk singer Tony Glover's parents' home. Doris, whom he married around this time, managed their small subscriber base.
"We wanted to be for the music that wasn't being heard," says Pankake. Basically a collection of reviews with an editor's note, The Little Sandy Review had a sense of humor that the other folk zines lacked. And its writers cared passionately about music, culture and integrity  -  which came across in a savage, youthful, witty idealism that wasn't afraid to take revered artists and labels to task for shoddy work.
In an epic twenty-one-page review of the Newport Folk Festival in one of the magazine's later issues. Nelson wrote, "We come to praise Newport, not to bury it, but, alas, it fairly greets us with a shovel in its hands, an embarrassed grin on its face, and the Folkways Anthology at its feet."
As the fanzine grew in prestige, Nelson got bis friend Tony Glover a small recording deal for the trio Koerner, Ray and Glover (whose debut album Nelson produced). He later sent that album to Elektra Records, which signed the band, rereleasing the album and putting out four more.
And then there was Bob Dylan.
"Dylan was just a kid around campus in the folk scene," Pankake says. "He wasn't Dylan yet. He hadn't gone East and managed that transformation. He was just a second-rate coffeehouse singer. Paul and I had seen him playing in a coffeehouse in Dinkytown. And Dylan had seen The Little Sandy Review and knew who we were from that."
Later, Dyian would visit with the pair to be schooled in seminal folk, particularly Moe Asch's 19405 recordings of Woody Guthrie. As Nelson recalled it to his friends, Dylan sounded more like Harry Belafonte before he was exposed to the Guthrie 783. In an incident that became one of Nelson's favorite stories (he tells it in Martin Scorsese's Dylan documentary No Direction Home), the young singer purloined a bunch of records from the physically imposing Pankake, who came after Dylan brandishing a table leg to get them back.
Throughout his life, Nelson held fast to the Dylan bootleg recordings he had from this time, though he often played people a cassette of a later argument he had with Dylan at a party in Minneapolis. "Paul was saying Bob should move away from political songwriting, and Bob was saying no, everything had to be political," Elliott Murphy says. "Paul was right, but Bob, because of the force of his personality, won the argument."
In 1963, Nelson moved to New York on the heels of the respect that The Little Sandy Review had earned him. Though he aspired to write about film, he ended up taking the reins as managing editor of Sing Out!, the leading quarterly of the folk boom. Nelson and his wife, who was six months pregnant with their son, Mark, rented a two-bed' room apartment in a new building on Queens Boulevard. But after Mark was born, everything changed for Nelson.
He'd met a woman named Bobbi London, a folk singer in a group called the Pennywhistlers. London also worked at the front desk of the Sing Out! office, filling subscriptions. As she tells it, Nelson had asked one of her bandmates about her, and he'd told him that she slept with men for books. Though the account was spurious, Nelson was intrigued. Unbeknownst to his wife, Nelson started dating her. And, together, they made the annual pilgrimage to the Newport Folk Festival in 1965. They were near the front of the audience when Dylan came onstage and went electric.
"The sea parted," London says. "When we looked around, we just saw Jac [Holzman, founder of Elektra Records], Paul and myself on one side of the water and everyone else on the other. The music was pretty loud and not refined, but you could hear what it was going to be eventually. We knew that everything was going to change. And it did."
When Nelson returned to New York, he wrote a defense of Dylan in Sing Out!. "It was a sad parting of the ways for many, myself included," he wrote. "I choose Dylan. I choose an. I will stand behind Dylan and his 'new1 songs, and I'll bet my critical reputation (such as it may be) that I'm right."
Irwin Silber, the magazine's founder, wrote a piece alongside Nelson's expressing the opposite point of view: that the music was "not very good" rock & roll and "not very good Dylan."
In the end, Nelson was right. And his critical reputation was made.
A man of principle over practicality, Nelson quit the magazine after the review was published. "He knew when he wrote the piece that Dylan would be ostracized and vilified," London says. "And he didn't want to be part of that."
After he left Sing Out!, Nelson planned to pursue screenwriting but continued to eke out a living as a freelance writer.Though he and his wife would remain together until 1968  -  when she moved back to Warren with their son  -  and would remain married until 1973, he began spending more and more time at London's East Village apartment. She was struck by his fastidious ways. "He had a remarkable, rigid way of living his life, including the way he treated his writing," she remembers. "He would go over a word like someone analyzing the Talmud. He would work well into the night, going over it again and again, until the piece not only read perfect but looked perfect on the page. Even the way the type was positioned on the page looked beautiful. He chose the same paper to use every time, until they discontinued the color."
At every turn, Nelson seemed to choose culture over commitment. He connected with people over films, music and movies, and could discuss them for hours, yet he rarely talked about himself or his own emotions. Whether it be the Westerns of John Ford or the detective novels of Ross Macdonald or the songs of Leonard Cohen, he gravitated toward art with a stark moral code that elevated the loner misfit to the status of solitary romantic hero.
The next chapter in Nelson's career began in 1967, when Danny Fields became editor of a pop magazine called Hullabaloo. In need of a reviews editor, Fields asked several writers to turn in reviews of the Doors' first album and the Stones' Got Live If You Want It, both of which he liked. "I wanted to hire someone who agreed with me and who I felt liked them for the right reasons," he says. "And that someone was Paul Nelson."
Nelson's reviews of the albums, like many of his reviews before and after, were oriented in the world of cinema, while the writing itself had an uncommon grace, conveying the passion of rock & roll with literary elegance: "There is a certain type of movie nut who sits front-row center, leans forward and lets the film rush over him like the rush of wind past his ears, feels what is going on up there, his face aglow from the light of the screen. There is no distancing here, no attempt to push back for perspective.

</file>

<file= AmE06_E23>

1
Over a quarter of a century ago, two young photographers, Larry Sultan and Mike Mandel, approached a number of institutions with a strange request: Let us look through your photographic archives, copy certain images and present them as our work. They met little resistance, in part because they bore a letter from the National Endowment for the Arts identifying them as recipients of a grant for 1975. Certified by a federal agency as professional artists, Sultan and Mandel were given free rein just about everywhere they went. Professional methods and purposes often seem mysterious to outsiders. Why not assume that these artists were up to something useful or at least harmless?
For two and a half years, they combed through the image-vaults of nearly 80 bureaucracies of various kinds: federal agencies, aerospace corporations, university laboratories, fire and police departments. They were in search of something elusive: a hint of the strange or the sinister in pictures intended as neutral records of business as usual. One of their discoveries is a black-and-white print of three men gazing intently into the spray given off by a fanlike device. Even odder than this peculiar gizmo is the look of studious, almost reverent attentiveness on each of the men's faces. What is going on here? We can't know because Sultan and Mandel have removed the caption from this and all other images they collected. In a sense, they stripped these pictures naked, not to uncover their meanings but to put them up for grabs. 
As Mandel recently recalled, "We usually were looking at 4-by-5 contact prints, which permitted us to examine a lot of material very quickly. One day, at the Los Angeles Water Department, Larry started at one end of the room, I started at the other. Between us, we looked at 400,000 images." In all, they eyeballed over two million photographs before settling on about 500. From these they selected 57, which were shown at the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art in 1977. From San Francisco, the exhibition traveled to the Fogg Museum of Art at Harvard, the Museum of Contemporary Art in Chicago, and on to several other venues. It then entered an archive of its own, at the Center for Creative Photography at the University of Arizona, Tucson. For nearly three decades, the Center has been the repository of the entire project - the 57 images that went on view in "Evidence," as the exhibition was titled; prints and file negatives of the 500 photographs from which the smaller group was selected; as well as correspondence and other paperwork generated by the project. At the time of the show, the artists published a book that bore the same title and presented the same sequence of 57 images.
For years, "Evidence" could be seen only in the pages of this book. Then, early in 2004, the Center for Creative Photography mounted an exhibition of the original images. Re-titled "Evidence Revisited," it traveled from Tucson to the Loeb Art Center of Vassar College, where I saw it, and on to the Photographer's Gallery in London. There were, as well, selections from "Evidence" on view at the Stephen Wirtz Gallery in San Francisco, and last summer a version of the show was seen at the Berlin Biennial. On the occasion of "Evidence Revisited," the artists published a new edition of the book. This one contains two more images than the original edition, as well as an introduction by Sandra S. Phillips, senior curator of photography at the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art, and an afterword by Robert F. Forth, dean of the California College of the Arts.
Before "Evidence," Sultan and Mandel collaborated on other works, among them a series of enigmatic billboard images seen along the freeways of Los Angeles. More recently, they have worked together on large photographic murals for public places, among them the San Francisco International Airport and the Children's Center for the Administration of Children's Services in Manhattan. These vast pictures are mosaics: fields of small ceramic tiles, each one bearing an image-bit transferred from a photograph. This variation on a traditional medium is Mandel's invention, and he has employed it to carry out a number of mural projects on his own. Recently, he and his wife, the artist Chantal Zakari, revamped the medium again, this time for the digital age. Exchanging photography for Internet pictures, they produced a wall-sized mosaic of Webcam sex titled Suzi, which was on view at Gasp Gallery in Boston for six weeks in 2005. Here, tiles functioned as pixels to generate virtual imagery at the walk-in scale of architecture.
Sultan's solo works include Pictures from Home (1992), a portfolio that mixes images from his family's snapshot and movie archives with the artist's formal photographs of his parents. Thus the familiar myths sustained by old pictures are questioned from a later, more detached point of view. The Valley (2003) shows men and women relaxing in the living rooms and on the patios of houses in the San Fernando Valley - the site, as well, of Pictures form Home. Naked or clad in bathrobes, these figures are porn actors and actresses. Each of these houses, in all its suburban banality, has been rented for the three-day period it takes to make an "adult" film. The master fiction of pornography is that a person can be all body and the body can be entirely sexual and thus completely manipulable. Sultan's pictures of porn-bodies off-camera do not attack this fiction directly. These are not didactic images. Rather, they draw us into speculative contact with a variety of informal portraits, many of them exasperatingly opaque. Yet the opacity of these faces and postures is engaging, as is the indecipherable strangeness of images in "Evidence." Whatever their subject, Sultan and Mandel bring it to life by putting it beyond the reach of reductive analysis. (My praise for the elusiveness of "Evidence" should not be taken as a sign that I am a relativist or doubt the possibility of objective truth. There is much about which we can make objectively true statements - an obvious point that has no bearing on art, because art raises no issue of truth. Art is fictional, though not all fictions are art. To count as art, a fiction must be complex enough - one might say, resourceful enough - to resist all our attempts to assign it a settled meaning.)
Mandel and Sultan were of course glad to see "Evidence" reemerge as an exhibition after nearly three decades in mothballs. However, as both artists note, the Center for Creative Photography's "Evidence Revisited" presented some difficulties. "The Center imposed its own curatorial design," says Sultan. "The images were resequenced, in an attempt to supply thematic coherence. Our intention in 1977 was to leave it open, to make room for the viewer. And we were careful to avoid the kind of sequence that would congeal around formal qualities." At the Berlin Biennial, too, the curators "wanted to have their own way" with "Evidence," according to Sultan. The result, says Mandel, "wasn't the perfect show." Nonetheless, he adds, the walls where this version of "Evidence" appeared "were so decrepit and debased" that "the narrative inherent" in the work was reinforced, atmospherically. 
"Narrative" may be a misleading word. There is no story to be read into "Evidence," however its images are arranged. Still, in its original sequence - the one reestablished by the new edition of the book - the work uses technology's self-images to shine a questioning light on its imperative: to shape and control. In one photograph, a man stands with a bag of some translucent material over his head. Another man holds a blow torch to the bag. What on earth is going on here? In the absence of a caption, the viewer has no idea, just as it is impossible to know why men are wading into the wall of foam that advances from the background of another photograph. To traverse the eye-level row of pictures is to drift from one conundrum to the next. What are the silhouetted figures doing inside the translucent cube? Why does the gloved hand cover the monkey's face? How did the space suit come to be lying dace down on a stretch of office carpeting? We can't even tell if there is anyone - or anything - inside the suit.
"Evidence" offers glimpses into a world where hard hats are often worn with suits and ties, as mid-level functionaries employ procedures and pieces of equipment intelligible only to the must specialized expertise. And there are excursions to scrubby landscapes inhabited only by down-to-earth hardware. A series of metal retaining walls shapes a hillside. A platoon of triangle-headed objects - sensors of some sort? - crowd into the foreground. Three beds stand in an open field, accompanied by trash cans and fire extinguishers. These images form a suite of indecipherable puzzles, yet the frustration they induce is a small price to pay for the uneasy pleasure of immersion in their oddness. 
One photograph shows a man carrying a black case as he negotiates a heap of stony fragments at the bottom of a concrete-lined pit. Another is a tight shot of broken stones piled up and confined by gridded wire. Pictures of various substances chipped, torn and otherwise fragmented comport nicely with stop-time images of explosions. Measuring devices appear frequently, as do close-ups of ropes, cables and various species of rigging. Though many of these pictures show a step in the accomplishment of some complex task, the exhibition is haunted by a sense of highly sophisticated futility - or worse. A man in high rubber boots stands ankle deep in the dark liquid flowing into the even darker depths of an immense conduit. Viewers eager to nail down a meaning could see him as a guide to an underworld where the intrepid traveller discovers that the effects of technology are even direr than we imagine.
Sultan and Mandel grew up in the San Fernando Valley, just east of Los Angeles and well within the aerospace industry's sphere of influence. When they were young, advanced technology was aglow with utopian promise, not all of it merely implied. Though they find that promise unpersuasive, they are not Luddities nostalgic for the imaginary idyll of preindustrial times. They feel, rather, that our times are too easily seduced by the hope of total control, whether technological or social or political. The rundown walls in Berlin on which the most recent version of "Evidence" was exhibited are those of a school for Jewish girls. Long in ruins, never renovated, this setting has a "rough history," as Sultan notes. With this understatement, he recalls the 20th century's most atrocious attempt at social control - Nazi genocide, which made deathly use of technology.
2
Those who expect art to perform community service will insist on seeing "Evidence" as an indictment of technology. Undeniably, Sultan and Mandel's selections are well calculated to endow advanced technology with a spooky aura. But conjuring up an aura is not to be confused with bringing an indictment and making it stick. To do that, one must present a coherent argument and support it with solid evidence. This is precisely what "Evidence" does not do, what it cannot do. The exhibition's lack of verbal explication of any sort removes every last ounce of evidentiary weight from the images it puts on display. "Evidence" is a thoroughly ironic title for these pictures. Yet Sultan and Mandel are ironists only in passing. Their overriding aim is to loft us out of our usual ways of thinking. They want to send us into speculative orbit around images that we will never be able to interpret with any certainty.
"Evidence" begins with a photograph of footprints on flagstones. A bit later in the sequence, there are pictures of handprints and burnt-out fuse boxes - all of them taken, presumably, by a crime scene photographer from one of the police departments that appear in Sultan and Mandel's list of sources. Labeled, these traces of a human presence would be far less mysterious.

</file>

<file= AmE06_E24>

Step aside, Clara and Sugar Plum Fairy. Though little girls everywhere dream of dancing those roles, hundreds of dancers are having a blast and jacking up crowds in The Nutcracker's second-act delights: the Spanish, Arabian, Chinese, Russian, and Mirlitons (French) divertissements. Sometimes danced by principals, these nuggets of nationalistic dancing-with as many variations as there are candles on the Stahlbaums' Christmas tree-more often give spotlight time to soloists or corps dancers. Five dancers from five companies share their experiences in making these spicy roles their own.
 
Many productions maintain the traditional Land of the Sweets theme, designating Spanish as chocolate, Arabian as coffee, Chinese as tea, Russian as candy canes, and Mirlitons as flute-shaped confections. Others get more creative. Choreographers seem to take the most license with the snippet of music that Tchaikovsky dubbed "Mirlitons." Boston Ballet makes it a pastoral scene, complete with shepherdesses and lambs; at San Francisco Ballet, three French dance-hall girls swirl ribbons while flashing lots of leg; a trio in 18th-century garb dances to the flutes at Houston Ballet. And at Pacific Northwest Ballet, a Harlequin-like male character and two female sidekicks jump straight from commedia dell'arte.
 
PNB corps de ballet member Lesley Rausch, who has danced the role (called "Commedia" instead of "Mirlitons") in former artistic director Kent Stowell's Nutcracker for five years, loves its theatricality. "There's a lot of interaction between the three [dancers]; the guy dances with one, then the other, and it creates tension," she says. "It's puffy, with a lot of petite allegro and pointe work, and very musical.
 
"Doing Nut you get so bored and tired," continues Rausch, "but every time I do Commedia it's fun and upbeat and there's good energy between the dancers. It's more theatrical, so you can make something out of it."
 
At Houston Ballet, first soloist Ian Casady performed the Chinese Dance for six years, starting with his first season with the company in 1998. As luck would have it, he was always paired with his boyhood friend, former HB soloist Lucas Priolo, in the dance for two men, one with a sword and one with a staff. "I did it with Lucas every time, so it got to the point where it ran like a machine. It's character [dancing] with acrobatic stuff thrown in. I was the sword guy," says Casady. The dancers don't need special training to work with the weapons since they're not used for fencing, but good teamwork is essential for the cartwheels and butterfly kicks they perform over each other's weapon. Still, hazard pay might be in order; despite the sword's blunt edge, Casady managed to draw blood in rehearsal. "I cut my head on the sword one time-I just barely tapped my head with it, and I didn't feel anything. But when I looked in the mirror there was blood running down my face-that freaked me out!"
 
Although Casady, who now dances the Prince, has also done Mirlitons, Arabian, and Spanish, he says that Chinese is his favorite. "It's tricky, and the music's fun, and it's kind of a silly dance. The audiences are always really into it. I loved doing it."
 
At San Francisco Ballet, the role of lead Russian is practically synonymous with principal dancer Guennadi Nedviguine-who is, serendipitously, Russian. He's danced the role since he joined the company in 1997, nearly always on opening night, earning whoops and cheers with his high-flying split jumps. How many he squeezes in depends on his mood. "Sometimes I do one big, then one small, one big, then one small, then four. Sometimes I do them with a grand plie, and then I do less," he says. (He trades in his Cossack-style duds for princely attire when he dances the grand pas de deux.)
 
Although artistic director Helgi Tomasson launched an elegant new production in 2004, he retained Anatole Vilzak's 1986 choreography for the Russian trepak. "I think it was a good move," says Nedviguine. "The character has been written very bravura." With its folk-dance-based steps and dazzling jumps, it has always been a crowd-pleaser. But now the three men make a surprise entrance, bursting out of Faberge-like eggs. "You have this little hole to look through for the conductor's cue, but you don't have much space to start jumping and break the paper," Nedviguine says. "You're pretty tense when you're in there, like a tiger waiting to jump. It works well with the choreography-you explode onto the stage."
 
Cheering crowds weren't the reason why New York City Ballet principal dancer Wendy Whelan coveted the role of Arabian. She's danced it only twice, but the memory of her performance is indelible-it's on film, in the 1993 movie version of George Balanchine'sThe Nutcracker. And the role is equally well preserved in the heart of this dancer. "I wanted to do it my whole life, so it was a dream come true. My mother had gotten me tickets for Christmas when I was 6 or 7, and that was the only thing I remembered," says Whelan. "I liked it because it had such a different tempo-smoky and sexy, with snaky music."
 
So when NYCB ballet master in chief Peter Martins offered her the role, Whelan was thrilled. "I like the earthiness of it, that it's almost a modern dance," she says. "The style is more what I'm comfortable with-flexed feet and hands, head down, and darker. I could always relate to that. It's very physical and earthy and exotic.
 
"I was learning it with ballet mistress Rosemary Dunleavy," continues Whelan, "and I remember doing one of the steps with flexed feet differently, and she really liked it. As a young principal dancer, it was important to me that she said the way I did it was valid."
 
As if dancing Arabian weren't enough of a fantasy come to life, Whelan's memory of the role is inextricably tied to romance: It was while wearing that costume that she met the man who would become her husband, photographer David Michalek. "I remember when the door opened and we saw each other," she says. "I put my little dress on and I tried to seduce him." With obvious success-they've been together for 13 years.
 
Unlike Whelan, Kate Crews, a demi-soloist with Ballet West, has made something of a career out of her customary Nutcracker role. After dancing Spanish for four years at Kansas City Ballet, Crews was cast in it again in her first year with Ballet West, as the trio's lead in Willam Christensen's Nutcracker. Seven years later she's still at it. "My favorite part is the entrance," she says. "The two side girls come on and then the lead comes on with this huge jete, and it gets the audience's attention. It's quick but powerful. You get to play with the audience, give it a little extra flair."
 

Crews, who also dances the longer, adagio Arabian, says, "Spanish is exciting. It's short; you make your statement and it's done. And now that it's such a part of my body and experience, I couldn't imagine doing Nutcracker without it."

Dance has always had the ability to be suggestive, controversial, and downright sexy. After all, it is about the human body. From the early modern radicalism of Vaslav Nijinsky to the experimental nudity of the '60s to the ways ballet can take on sexuality in works like Balanchine's Bugaku, there have been performances that cause audiences to squirm in their seats. Dance Magazine looks back at some of the most outrageously sexual moments in dance history. Talk about shock value!

1912, Paris L'Apres-Midi d'un Faune (Afternoon of a Faun) premieres with Vaslav Nijinsky performing the lead role in the sexually explicit piece he choreographed for Diaghilev's Ballets Russes. The 12-minute ballet, set to Debussy, was like an Egyptian frieze come to life. The minimalist, angular, two-dimensional dancing of the seven maidens and Nijinsky's faun dramatically defined the choreography's opposition to classical ballet. The sexuality of the piece reaches its climax when the faun simulates masturbation with the scarf of his favorite maiden. Gaston Calmette, editor of Le Figaro, wrote, "We have had a faun, incontinent, with vile movements of erotic bestiality and gestures of heavy shamelessness." The negative attention boosted public interest and the show sold out for the remainder of its run.
 
1926, Paris At the Folies-Bergere nightclub, American-born performer Josephine Bakerperforms an exotic dance on a mirror wearing a miniskirt made of 16 bananas. The 20-year-old had arrived in Paris a year earlier to perform in La Revue Negre, and when the show closed she was invited to star in La Folie du Jour. Baker, billed as the "Dark Star," secured herself a fruitful career. André Levinson wrote that Baker "is an extraordinary creature of simian suppleness - a sinuous idol that enslaves and incites mankind. Thanks to her carnal magnificence and her impulsive vehemence, her unashamed exhibition comes close to pathos."
 
1938, Chicago Katherine Dunham premieres Barrelhouse - A Florida Swamp Shimmy. Inspired by the song "Barrelhouse Blues," which she first heard in a barbecue shack, Dunham swivels her hips and wears a beaded costume that accentuates each pivot of this flirtatious and raunchy duet. The dance critic Walter Terry wrote, "This is an insinuating, sexy, and delightfully humorous dance which every Dunham fan cherishes." In 1994 Dunham set Barrelhouse Blues on the Cleo Parker Robinson Dance Ensemble and the piece remains in their repertoire.
 
1963, New York George Balanchine creates Bugaku, a dance about ritualized seduction, for Allegra Kent and Edward Villella. The name and stylized choreography derive from Japanese dance rituals, which act as a foil to western gender roles. Kent plays what Robert Gottlieb in his biography on Balanchine calls a "delicate-erotic bride," and Villella plays the dominant, macho male. Anna Kisselgoff remarked that Balanchine "seems to have derived his inspiration for the pas de deux from Japanese pornographic prints."
 
1965, Stockholm Anna Halprin premieres Parades and Changes. Two years later, the dance debuts in New York City. The performers walk through the aisles of the auditorium to the stage, stand in line facing the audience, take off all of their clothes, wrap themselves in brown paper, and roll into the orchestra pit - all in slow motion. The New York Timesdubbed the group "the no-pants dancers from San Francisco." The New York premiere of the show was the first time nudity appeared on a major American stage. Along with slams by the critics, a warrant was issued for Halprin's arrest.
 
1965, New York Robert Morris, a minimalist sculptor, creates a theatrical work calledWaterman Switch at Judson Memorial Church. The piece begins with large rocks rolling across the stage. Then, Morris and Yvonne Rainer, completely nude and locked in an embrace, inch their way across parallel beams while Lucinda Childs circles the stage. Because of this performance, Judson was nearly ousted from the American Baptist Convention. The previous year, Morris had premiered Site. The dance began with large white planks of wood in the space, and as Morris removed the wood he revealed Carolee Schneemann, nude and reclining on a white makeshift couch, a living version of Manet'sOlympia.
 
1967, Chicago Robert Joffrey's Astarte combines hard rock music, intense lighting, and images on a large screen in what was described as a "psychedelic trip ballet." The male dancer strips his way to the stage until he is in nothing but briefs. He and his partner, the goddess Astarte, engage in sexual gyrations that are projected onto the screen. Critic Marcia Siegel wrote, "Each one, separately, reaches a climax that is expressed in destructive fury. Each one, in a sense, rapes the other." Two years later, Astarte made the cover of Time magazine.
 

1970, Sullins College, VA Twyla Tharp plays with the differences between movement clothed and naked in the solo PYMFFYPPMFYNM YPF (a title taken from a newspaper misprint). Graciela Figueroa was to dance the piece once topless, and a second time bottomless. Sullins College threatened to cancel the performance. After giving the audience the opportunity to leave, Tharp insists Figueroa perform the piece in its entirety.

</file>

<file= AmE06_E25>

Laken and Kozel recently launched another DoDPI-funded study designed to mimic as closely as possible the emotions experienced while committing a crime. In the spring, after this research is complete, Laken will start looking for Cephos' first clients - ideally "people who are trying to show that they're being truthful and who want to use our technology to help support their cases."
No Lie MRI will debut its services this July in Philadelphia, where it will demonstrate the technology to be used in a planned network of facilities the company is calling VeraCenters. Each facility will house a scanner connected to a central computer in California. As the client responds to questions using a handheld device, the imaging data will be fed to the computer, which will classify each answer as truthful or deceptive using software developed by Langleben's team. For No Lie MRI founder Joel Huizenga, scanner-based lie detection represents a significant upgrade in "the arms race between truth-tellers and deceivers."
Both Laken and Huizenga play up the potential power of their technologies to exonerate the innocent and downplay the potential for aiding prosecution of the guilty. "What this is really all about is individuals who come forward willingly and pay their own money to declare that they're telling the truth," Huizenga says. (Neither company has set a price yet.) Still, No Lie MRI plans to market its services to law enforcement and immigration agencies, the military, counterintelligence groups, foreign governments, and even big companies that want to give prospective CEOs the ultimate vetting. "We're really pushing the positive side of this," Huizenga says. "But this is a company - we're here to make money."
Scott Faro, a radiologist at Temple University Hospital who conducted experiments using fMRI in tandem with the polygraph, predicts that the invention of a more accurate lie detector "is going to change the entire judicial system. First it will be used for high-profile crimes like terrorism and Enron. You could have centers across the country built close to airports, staffed with cognitive neuroscientists, MRI physicists, and interrogation experts. Eventually you could have 20 centers in each major city, and the process will start to become more streamlined and cost-effective.
"People say fMRI is expensive," Faro continues, "but what's the cost of a six-month jury trial? And what's the cost to America for missing a terrorist? If this is a more accurate test, I don't see any moral issues at all. People who can afford it and believe they are telling the truth are going to love this test."
The guardians of another Philadelphia innovation that changed the judicial system - the US Constitution - are already sounding the alarm. In September, the Cornell Law Review weighed the legal implications of the use of brain imaging in courtrooms and federal detention centers, calling fMRI "one of the few technologies to which the now clichéd moniker of 'Orwellian' legitimately applies."
When lawyers representing Cephos' and No Lie MRI's clients come to court, the first legal obstacles they'll have to overcome are the precedents barring so-called junk science. Polygraph evidence was excluded from most US courtrooms by a 1923 circuit court decision that became known as the Frye test. The ruling set a high bar for the admission of new types of scientific evidence, requiring that a technology have "general acceptance" and "scientific recognition among physiological and psychological authorities" to be considered. When the polygraph first came before the courts, it had almost no paper trail of independent verification.
FMRI lie detection, however, has evolved in the open, with each new advance subjected to peer review. The Supreme Court has already demonstrated that it is inclined to look favorably on brain imaging: A landmark 2005 decision outlawing the execution of those who commit capital crimes as juveniles was influenced by fMRI studies showing that adolescent brains are wired differently than those of adults. The acceptance of DNA profiling may be another bellwether. Highly controversial when introduced in the 1980s, it had the support of the scientific community and is now widely accepted in the courts.
The introduction of fMRI evidence at trial may have to be vetted against legal precedents designed to prevent what's called invading the province of the jury, says Carter Snead, former general counsel for the President's Council on Bioethics. In 1973, a federal appeals court ruled that "the jury is the lie detector" and that scientific evidence and expert testimony can be introduced only to help the jury reach a more informed judgment, not to be the final arbiter of truth. "The criminal justice system is not designed simply to ensure accurate truth finding," Snead says. "The human dimension of being subjected to the assessment of your peers has profound social and civic significance. If you supplant that with a biological metric, you're losing something extraordinarily important, even if you gain an incremental value in accuracy."
No Lie MRI's plans to market its services to corporations will likely run afoul of the 1988 Employee Polygraph Protection Act, which bars the use of lie-detection tests by most private companies for personnel screening. Government employers, however, are exempt from this law, which leaves a huge potential market for fMRI in local, state, and federal agencies, as well as in the military.
It is in these sectors that fMRI and other new lie-detection technologies are likely to take root, as the polygraph did. The legality of fMRI use by government agencies will probably focus on issues of consent, predicts Jim Dempsey, executive director of the Center for Democracy & Technology, a Washington, DC-based think tank. "From a constitutional standpoint, consent covers a lot of sins," he explains. "Most applications of the polygraph in the US have been in consensual circumstances, even if the consent is prompted by a statement like 'If you want this job, you must submit to a polygraph.' The police can say, 'Would you blow into this Breathalyzer? Technically you're free to say no, but if you don't consent, we're going to make life hard for you.'"

Today's fMRI scanners are bulky, cost up to $3 million each, and in effect require consent because of their sensitivity to head movement. Once Cephos and No Lie MRI make their technology commercially available, however, these limitations will seem like glitches that merely need to be fixed. If advances make it possible to perform brain scans on unwilling or even unwitting subjects, it will raise a thicket of legal issues regarding privacy, constitutional protections against self-incrimination, and the prohibitions against unlawful search and seizure.

The technological innovations that produce sweeping changes often evolve beyond their designers' original intentions - the Internet, the cloud chamber, a 19th-century doctor's cuff for measuring blood pressure that, when incorporated into the polygraph, became the unsteady foundation of the modern counterintelligence industry.
So what began as a neurological inquiry into why kids with ADHD blurt out embarrassing truths may end up forcing the legal system to define more clearly the inviolable boundaries of the self.
"My concern is precisely with the civil and commercial uses of fMRI lie detection," says ethicist Paul Root Wolpe. "When this technology is available on the market, it will be in places like Guantánamo Bay and Abu Ghraib in a heartbeat.
"Once people begin to think that police can look right into their brains and tell whether they're lying," he adds, "it's going to be 1984 in their minds, and there could be a significant backlash. The goal of detecting deception requires far more public scrutiny than it has had up until now. As a society, we need to have a very serious conversation about this."
Your flight is now boarding. Please walk through the "mental detector."
For all the promise of fMRI lie detection, some practical obstacles stand in the way of its widespread use: The scanners are huge and therefore not portable, and a slight shake of the head - let alone outright refusal to be scanned - can disrupt the procedure. Britton Chance, a professor emeritus of biophysics at the University of Pennsylvania, has developed an instrument that records much of the same brain activity as fMRI lie detection - but fits in a briefcase and can be deployed on an unwilling subject.
Chance has spent his life chasing and quantifying elusive signals - electromagnetic, optical, chemical, and biological. During the Second World War, he led the team at the MIT Radiation Lab that helped develop military radar and incorporated analog computers into the ranging system of bombers. In the 1970s, long before the invention of fMRI, Chance began using a related technique called magnetic-resonance spectroscopy to study living tissue. The first functionally imaged brain was that of a hedgehog in one of his experiments. Now 92, Chance still rides his bike to the university six days a week to teach and work in his lab. His mind is as acute as ever. After glancing through a book to confirm a data point, he resumes the conversation by saying, "I'm back online."
He explains that his goal is to create a wearable device "that lets me know what you're thinking without you telling me. If I ask you a question, I'd like to know before you answer whether you're going to be truthful."
To map neural activity without fMRI, Chance uses beams of near-infrared light that pass harmlessly through the forehead and skull, penetrating the first few centimeters of cortical tissue. There the light bounces off the same changes in blood flow tracked by fMRI. When it reemerges from the cranium, this light can be captured by optical sensors, filtered for the "noise" of light in the room, and used to generate scans.
Though near-infrared light doesn't penetrate the brain as deeply as magnetic resonance, some of the key signatures of deception mapped by fMRI researchers occur in the prefrontal cortex, just behind the forehead. The first iteration of Chance's lie detector consisted of a Velcro headband studded with LEDs and silicon diode sensors. Strapping these headbands on 21 subjects in a card-bluffing experiment in 2004, a neuroscientist at Drexel named Scott Bunce was able to accurately detect lying 95 percent of the time. The next step, Chance says, is to develop a system that can be used discreetly in airports and security checkpoints for "remote sensing" of brain activity. This technology could be deployed to check for deception during standard question-and-answer exchanges (for example, "Has anyone else handled your luggage?") with passengers before boarding a plane, or during interviews with those who have been singled out for individual searches.
With funding from the Office of Naval Research, Chance and his colleagues are working to replace the LED headband with an invisible laser and a hypersensitive photon collector to create a system that can pick up the neural signals of deception from across a room.
Before undertaking this project, Chance consulted with Arthur Caplan, director of Penn's Center for Bioethics. "Dr. Chance was a little uneasy about it," Caplan recalls. "But there are certain public places where we lose the right to privacy as a condition of entering the building. Airport security staff is allowed to search your bag, your possessions, and even your body. In my view, there's no blanket rule that says it's always wrong to scan someone without their consent. What we need is a set of policies to determine when you have to have consent."
Chance believes the virtues of what he calls "a network to detect malevolence" outweigh the impact on personal liberties. "It would certainly represent an invasion of privacy," he says. "I'm sure there may be people who, for very good reasons, would not want to come near this device - and they're the interesting ones. But we'll all feel a bit safer if this kind of technology is used in places like airports. If you don't want to take the test, you can turn around and fly another day." Then he smiles. "Of course, that's the biggest selector of guilt you could want."

</file>

<file= AmE06_E26>

From casting to cameras to postproduction, the all-digital making of The Insurgents redefines the meaning of "low-budget"
IF YOU KNOW YOUR MOVIES, YOU KNOW The Blair Witch Project. Shot largely with a Hi8 video camcorder and promoted with ingenious thrift over the Internet, the 1999 indie thriller was widely bailed as a triumph of modern technology. First-time filmmakers Daniel Myrick and Eduardo Sánchez made Blair Witch for less than $25,000, and in the wake of a now famous midnight screening at the Sundance Film Festival, the film went on to gross more than $140 million in the U.S. alone.
The rub is that Blair Witch doesn't look like a feature film, and its not supposed to. That's part of its charm, but there's no forgetting that it was made on the cheap. The image is shaky and imprecise, the lighting harsh, the performances less than professional. At times, you can even hear the crew laughing in the background. Without its self-referential premise, Blair Witch is just another poorly made amateur film.
The real revolution starts today. Eight years after Blair Witch, digital technology has improved to the point where you can make a true Motion Picture  -  with a cinema-quality image, bona fide special effects, even name actors  -  for little more than Myrick and Sánchez spent on their run-and-gun indie.
This winter, Web designer/writer-director Scott Dacko proved it with The Insurgents, a political thriller starring Mary Stuart Masterson (of Fried Green Tomatoes fame), NYPD Blue's Henry Simmons, indie up-and-comer Juliette Marquis, and veteran character actor John Shea. Shot in New York City under the new Ultra-Low Budget Agreement introduced by the Screen Actors Guild last July, it was financed for less than $200,000 in cash. But thanks to today's technology, you'd never know it.
The Insurgents has all the earmarks of a big-time feature. It's photographed in the kind of panoramic widescreen format you associate with trips to the local movie theatre. Its editor. Bob Reitano, has cut several pictures for Nora Ephron, including Sleepless in Seattle. Masterson and Shea are veterans of Oscar-nominated projects. It's quite a feat  -  and it's all due to new technology.
Making Films Without Film
Scott Dacko took The Insurgents from script to full-blown movie in little more than nine months, and every step hinged on tools of the digital age. The project began with a laptop and a Web browser in Dacko's New York apartment. The final cut came together on a Macintosh G5 just blocks away. And in between, you can point to countless other steps that would not have been possible only a few years ago, from the PC Card hard drives used for recording sound to the GPS boxes used to track down shooting locations.

All of this new technology was instrumental in and crucial for completing the project quickly and inexpensively. But the tool that made the movie possible in the first place  -  and that elevates The Insurgents above ultra-low-budget films of the past  -  is high-definition digital photography. With hi-def, you can shoot at low cost and still create an image that competes with good old-fashioned 35mm film.
Make no mistake: Hi-def photography can't duplicate the classic film image. It can't capture anywhere near the same range of light  -  you lose a full 12 f-stops  -  which eliminates anything too dark or too bright. And in the minds of many film enthusiasts, if you project onto a large enough screen, HD can still look, well, digital. "It masks nothing. It smooths nothing. It eases nothing," says Reitano. "Film still does all that."
But HD offers resolution and color depth comparable to 35mm. Some even argue that it's a step ahead in these respects. Whatever the case, to the average Joe, HD looks like the real deal, and with so many filmmakers now shooting in the new format, including big names like George Lucas, the movie establishment is finally beginning to embrace it. Today, all the major movie festivals offer digital projection, and, more than ever, an HD film has a shot at widespread distribution.
This means that someone like Dacko can cut costs on photography without losing too much production value  -  the stuff that turns a movie into a Movie. You have not only the extra money you need to attract name actors, you have the cinema look and feel you need as well. Of course, signing actors isn't easy, and a good movie depends on more than production values. But HD gives you a chance.
A New Way of Networking
By the middle of last year, Dacko was tired of asking other people to make his movies. On the strength of several screenplays, he signed with an agent. One screenplay was optioned by an independent production company and another made some noise in one of the bigger indie writing contests. But the wheels were slow to turn, and when he finished writing The Insurgents, be decided it was time to make a movie on his own.
The first thing he did was open his Web browser.
Armed with a screenplay and a few thousand dollars of his own money, he logged on to mandy.com, a kind of craigslist for the film and television industries. He posted two ads: one for a cameraman and one for a line producer, someone to oversee logistics. The first responses arrived within minutes, and over the next few days, be received dozens of calls from producers and countless DVD "reels" from cinematographers. He even heard from an Oscar winner.
Within days, Dacko hired a line producer, and the project snowballed from there. Originally, he planned to shoot the entire film using only the money on hand. But through this initial hire, Dacko attracted a trio of New York-based producing partners. In exchange for equity  -  a cut of the film's profits  -  all three partners contributed money and services.
Angel Baby Entertainment, a production company whose credits include the upcoming Vanessa L. Williams vehicle My Brother, provided legal services and many of the important industry connections. Mary Stuart Masterson came on board after Angel Baby's John Gallagher, a writer-director in his own right, arranged a call to her mother, actress Carlin Glynn.
Another production house, Full Glass Films, took over as line producer. The third, Offhollywood Digital, handled postproduction, including color correction, special effects, and sound editing. With these three on board, the budget nearly doubled.
They joined the project because they liked the script, which takes post-9/11 fears and turns them upside down, following four Americans as they plan to detonate a bomb on U.S. soil. "The script had a vibrancy I knew would attract good actors," explains Angel Baby's Greg Segal, "and after the success of films like Syriana and Good Night, and Good Luck, I liked the timeliness of the political story." Of course, Segal and the rest wouldn't have read the script if not for mandy.com.

Widescreen on a Slim Budget
The extra money wasn't spent on film. From the very beginning, Dacko was set on HD, and as the budget grew, he never even entertained the thought of shooting on film. After ten years as a Web designer, he's comfortable with all things digital. He knew HD would give him more control.
"I'm a digital guy." he says. "I knew chat if I shot in digital, even if I ran out of money halfway through. I could take the source files and edit them myself, color-correct all on my own. There was so much more that, in a pinch, I knew I could do bootstrapped."
Plus, if he switched to film. Dacko wouldn't have much money left for cast and crew. The typical 35mm indie uses around 100,000 feet of film, and each foot costs nearly 50 cents. That's $50,000 for film stock alone. And then you pay for processing. Shooting in HD, Dacko paid around $20 for each 33-minute digital tape, using about 50 tapes over the course of a three-week shoot, and his processing costs were nonexistent. That freed up precious dollars for hiring the likes of Mary Stuart Masterson, Henry Simmons, and Bob Reitano.

What he did do is work to ensure that his HD image was as close to film as possible. Together with his cinematographer, Learan Kahanov, a veteran of six features, he decided to shoot with the Panasonic Varicam. The Varicam uses a lower resolution than its main competitor, the Sony HDWF900  -  1,280 by 720 versus 1,920 by 1,080  -  but it offers a "film rec" mode that, in Dacko and Kahanov's opinion, comes closer to that intangible thing we call cinema.
Moreover, the two opted for widescreen, an image with an aspect ratio of 2.35 to 1. "Choosing widescreen was a way of differentiating this project from all the other low-budget films out there."
They considered using an anamorphic adapter, a device that attaches to the front of the camera and converts the standard HD image to widescreen without losing resolution. But the adapter added 9 inches to the camera, making it all the more difficult to shoot in the film's tight New York locations. Instead, Dacko and Kahanov went with state-of-art digital lenses, Zeiss DigiPrimes, getting as much detail into the image as possible before cropping the image in postproduction to attain the widescreen look. Yes, that loses precious lines of resolution. But, after tests in a small theater before the official shoot, they were confident this ad hoc widescreen image would retain its detailed look when projected for an audience.
A Movie Set Is a Movie Set
The shoot wasn't all that different from a traditional film shoot. Because HD captures a limited range of light, Kahanov lit The Insurgents a bit more carefully than he would have if he had been working with film. But he used everything from stationary camera setups to dolly shots and Steadicam. Primary sound was recorded on camera, via boom mic.Production assistants (PAs) ran around with walkie-talkies. A craft services table was never far away.
Kahanov set up each shot using an on-camera LCD monitor with a built-in waveform. "The waveform acts as a kind of light meter," he explains. "I know if things are clipped at the white end of the spectrum or if things are too dark. I'm not staring at it like it's a hard-and-fast rule, but it gives me an idea of where I stand with the light." Then, off camera, he cheeked composition, focus, and color on a 14-inch HD monitor. This showed the full l,280-by-720 image, while Dacko watched on his own 9-inch monitor, where the shot was masked to show the final widescreen image.
Image and primary sound were recorded to HD tapes, each carefully cataloged by a PA. And across the set, tapping into a pair of wireless mics clipped to the actors, a sound mixer recorded backup sound to a 5GB PC Card hard drive.
The biggest difference is that Dacko was free to keep the camera rolling. HD tapes are so cheap, be didn't need to worry about filling them. This meant the actors were more relaxed, and in the end, the shoot was more efficient. "On a film set, as soon as you yell 'cut,' everybody stops working," says Dacko. "When shooting digitally, you don't have to cut. I can shoot in series. It allows for more takes, and it allows for actors to rehearse on the fly, which is invaluable on a low-budget independent production."
Postproduction on a PC
Dailies were available within 24 hours, and Reitano cut the whole film in less than four weeks. After each day's shoot, PAs shuttled tapes to Offhollywood Digital, and technicians slipped them into a Varicam "deck" that streams footage onto a G-RAID bard drive via FireWire cable. From there, the footage was compressed and burned onto DVD. Before going to bed each night, Dacko watched the dailies on his home television.
Meanwhile, the same G-RAID drive was plugged into a dual-G5 desktop where Reitano edited the picture using Apple's Final Gut Pro.

</file>

<file= AmE06_E27>

New disks are made to handle tougher corn residue
IN THE MIDST of a cyclical downturn in tillage sales, there's one tool that is gaining ground: disks. Growers are adding disks, or disk harrows, to their toolbox to tackle tougher corn residue, a growing problem on Midwest farms.
"One of the trend lines we are seeing is residue management," says Larry
Kuster, marketing specialist for AGCO Sunflower. "And we can debate about strip-till, no-till and other farming practices, but we are all working with genetically altered crops now."
Kuster says that while genetically altered crops produce higher yields they also leave more residue. The average amount of residue on a 200+ bu. cornfield today is 5 tons/acre compared to just 2 to 3 tons/acre less than a decade ago.
The plant cell walls contain lignin, a chemical compound that holds the plant cells together. The lignin in genetically modified hybrids doesn't break down over winter as easily as the lignin in conventional hybrids. "We started seeing the problem eight years ago with Roundup Ready beans and Bt corn," Kuster says. "Farmers were complaining that residue wasn't passing through their harrows, and they wanted us to adjust the implements. We quickly found we were dealing with a different plant."
In addition, farmers are growing more continuous corn acres as opposed to using the old corn and bean rotation. The end result is a growing stockpile of stalks and stems that can interfere with planting and form a hotbed for disease.
Break it down
To deal with the different and tougher plant, growers have started using disks again. "In the past there hasn't been as much need to size the residue," says Kail Schoen, marketing manager with Landoll Corporation. "Farmers used to do more standard ripping or chiseling in the fall and then hit the field with the cultivator in spring."
Unlike other tillage tools, disks are specifically designed to cut residue down to manageable chunks and mix it into the top 4 to 5 in. of soil. Wide rows of circular blades do the cutting and mixing. The top few inches of soil form the zone where soil microbes are the most active to allow for decay.
"We like to reference a wooden fence post," explains Jamie Meier, Landoll's ag division sales manager. "Where does a fence post rot? Always right below the soil surface because there is air, soil and moisture, which make the microbes most aggressive."
For the residue to decompose, it must be incorporated in the ground before the soil temperature drops to 40 ° when microbes go dormant. Disks are sized wide, covering 30 to 40 ft. in a pass, allowing you to meet that window. "Compared to a smaller ripper-type tool, you can get in the field and cover a lot of acres quickly, which is especially important further north in the Corn Belt," Meier says.
Manufacturers recommend you disk as soon as possible after harvest before the soil temperature drops. Once the residue starts breaking down, the soil gets a kickback in nitrogen. The available nutrients on an acre of 200-bu. corn translate to 77 lbs. of nitrogen, 12 lbs. of phosphorus and 116 lbs. of potassium if the residue is sized and incorporated in the soil. The additional nitrogen can help offset the cost of fuel required to make a disk pass.
Cuts across classes
Disk usage is bridging all tillage classes -- from conventional till to no-till. "The disk harrow is one of those tools that no matter what your tillage beliefs are you are probably still going to have a good disk harrow," says Tom Evans, vice-president of sales for Great Plains Manufacturing, a company specializing in conventional and vertical tillage tools."Even if you are a firm believer in vertical tillage, you can still disk afterward or use a disk prior to subsoiling without changing the soil density."
Evans says disking is one of the fastest and most efficient ways to chop residue and smooth out combine ruts.
Landoll's Meier says conventional tillers are doing a disk pass prior to running the traditional coulters, chisels or disk rippers. No-till farmers, on the other hand, are using the disk as their only tillage pass.
"To give you an example, we just talked to some no-till guys who are looking at buying a disk to get rid of residue," Meier says. "They plan to disk in the fall and plant on a stale seedbed. They still consider themselves to be practicing no-till because they are not making a secondary pass in the spring."
He says disks can help no-tillers with other challenges, too, like slow soil warm-up and uneven emergence, by leveling the ground and incorporating the residue so the planter can penetrate the ground more evenly.
Downsides of disking
On the downside, disking may not work equally as well in all soil types. It also leaves less residue cover than no-tilling, which makes the soil more susceptible to erosion. However, tillage manufacturers say that, in this new cropping environment, no-till farmers, including those who are switching to strip-till, will need to do something to handle residue, especially if they are looking at using a corn-on-corn rotation.
Disking also does not address soil compaction, which occurs deeper in the soil profile. Growers concerned about compaction will have to make a separate pass with ripper-type shanks to fracture compacted layers.
David Benson, spokesperson for Krause Corporation, says that, because compaction is an issue of many farms, disk ripper combination tools also have been a hot item this year for his company.
"When talking with customers about their fall tillage needs in cornstalks, I advise there are basically two scenarios depending on your soil management needs," Benson says. "One is if you have deeper compaction you'll need to size and incorporate residue and address the compaction with some type of deep tillage. Then I recommend a one-pass combination primary tillage system like the Krause Dominator. If sizing and incorporating residue is the main goal, then a tandem disk harrow is the higher speed, higher productivity way to go."

Demand for specialized labor is increasing on Midwest crop farms.
JUSTIN RAHN OF MT. CARROLL, IL, COULD HAVE worked for an agricultural retailer in Carroll County after graduating last March with a degree in agricultural production management. Rahn, 20, was named Outstanding Student of the Year at Kirkwood Community College, the No. 2-rated two-year ag college in the country.
Instead, he took a job as crop and livestock assistant on his parents' farm, where he'll apply his skills in site-specific farming. "Since GPS came out, my grandpa and dad have not incorporated it into their operation," Rahn says. "I went to school for it, and I'm trying to bring it into the operation. Technology pays, but it costs, too." Rahn will be in charge of data collection, hardware and geographic information software.
He represents a new breed of "specialized" labor being called to work on Midwest farms. These new recruits are wanted for skills or knowledge that owners don't have the time to learn but are nonetheless required on today's large crop farms. Machinery repair, computer electronics, agronomy, commercial trucking, terracing and commercial chemical application are all areas these workers cover.
On-farm specialists
Farm owners have historically relied on local ag retailers, implement dealers or custom help to do many of these jobs.But as operations get bigger, timeliness becomes more of a factor. Owners may not have the time to wait for the next available service person. To bypass the crunch, large-acreage farmers are buying their own commercial equipment.
"Five years ago, farmers expected the farm supply business to do their fertilizer spreading," says Steve Rice, president of Agri-Tech Personnel, an ag recruiting company. "Now many have bought equipment to do the work themselves.That is shifting the labor burden from farm suppliers, which had to keep its equipment staffs up, to these large farmers."
Seed and chemicals are their own new beast. Genetic engineering and advancements in chemistries require an agronomist's level of understanding. As a result, agricultural recruiters across the country are reporting an increased demand for farm employees who have these advanced skills.
Advanced training
Colleges and vocational schools are providing many students like Rahn with specialized skills. In the last five years, enrollment in Kirkwood's ag production program has jumped 25%.
The college has upgraded its curriculum and added more technology classes to meet demand, according to Dean of Agricultural Sciences Jerry Bolton. All students are now required to take courses in GPS and GIS in addition to crop production classes. The college also has invested in the latest equipment to give students hands-on training.
Applied chemistry also has been added to the program. "For years ag production curriculum in Iowa functioned with very little chemistry," Bolton says. "But because of the herbicide concentrations used today, the chemistry component is becoming more important."
The college continues to offer students certification for commercial pesticide licenses and commercial driver's licenses."Those two things are always in demand," Bolton says. "More farmers are marketing and hauling their own grain with tandem-axle trucks or commercial semis and are required to have a commercial license."
Bolton says half of Kirkwood's ag graduates get jobs with ag retailers and the other half are hired on farms.
Can you afford?
Job titles for these workers are broader than their specialties because they are required to perform other functions as well on the farm. Common titles include assistant farm manager, farm foreman and farm technician.
AgriCareers, an ag recruiting company in Massena, IA, publishes an annual farm salary survey for two crop positions:crop manager and cropping assistant. According to Gary Maas, managing partner with the company, the salary for a specialist would depend on the level of management required.
"A crop manager is described as operating on his or her own, eventually reporting back to the owner," Maas says. "A crop assistant is more of an operations person and would not have anyone reporting to them." The average salary for crop managers is $41,000 plus benefits, while the average for crop assistants is $29,579.
Hiring a specialist for each function is cost prohibitive for most farmers. But at the same time, hiring a generalist to fill all roles is an old model that no longer works, says Gary Little, president of Agra-Placements, Lincoln, IL. "Farming has changed dramatically in the last 30 years," Little says. "And you can't expect a generalist working on a farm to know everything about all of it."
The right ratio
Little suggests that, instead of hiring one person and thinking he or she will be able to do it all, you should look at hiring two with complementary specialties. "For example, you could look for one person who is knowledgeable in seed, chemicals and fertilizer and another who is good at machinery maintenance," he says. If the operation has livestock, a separate specialist should be appointed.
The exact number you can support largely depends on the size of your operation and whether your current method lets you get work done on time without crop yields affected. "For example, operations that are 2,000 to 5,000 acres almost demand at least one specialist devoted to your farm to ensure timeliness," Little says. "And with that many acres, there will likely be things for that person to do all year."
Farms with 8,000 acres may require two to four specialists, including one to haul equipment across counties and another to buy seed at volume discounts. On the other hand, an operation with 1,000 to 1,500 acres plus livestock may not be big enough to warrant one specialist for crops and another for livestock, Little adds.
If that's the case, specialists with commercial licenses can be hired out to do custom work during downtime. Another alternative is to form a hiring cooperative with other farmers. "Set up a co-op where you have three to four specialists that four operations employee jointly," Little says. "So when Operation A isn't busy, the specialists would be directed to go to Operation B."

</file>

<file= AmE06_E28>

"Cross contact may result from customary methods of growing and harvesting crops, as well as from the use of shared storage, transportation or production equipment."
"The FDA's limitation on the scope of the law is greatly appreciated," notes Attorney Martin J. Hahn, a partner in DC-based Hogan & Hartson LLC. Strict segregation of bulk commodities is almost impossible, which is why the standard of identity allows up to 25 percent wheat in commodities labeled as oats. But leeway on cross contamination is not an excuse for lax sanitation and scheduling routines. "There definitely is a potential financial consequence" if people become ill from consuming improperly labeled foods, Hahn says. And the damage to a manufacturer's reputation in a recall can be even more costly.
FALCPA is intended to help consumers, not punish manufacturers, supporters emphasize. Given the large community of food allergy sufferers - 11 million and growing, by some estimates - the act also is an opportunity for processors to build a bond of trust with a fiercely brand-loyal consumer segment.
To hedge or not to hedge 
With two years to prepare, manufacturers had sufficient time to get their labeling houses in order. If a product is derived from or contains an ingredient with protein from any of eight major allergen categories, the label must disclose it in plain English. The allergens are milk, egg, wheat, peanuts, soybeans and specific species of fish, Crustaceans and tree nuts (walnuts, cashews, pistachios, etc.). Manufacturers are free to include "may contain," "processed on equipment used for" or other advisories at their discretion. That is the act's first sticking point.
A sweeping "may contain" statement may minimize liability if someone suffers a reaction to a protein that wasn't supposed to be in a product, but it also discourages millions of potential buyers from purchasing. "FDA is discouraging 'may-contain' statements, though there's some leeway for interpretation," notes Karen Duester, president of Del Mar, CA-based Food Consulting Company. "The use of advisory statements depends on whether the marketing department or the legal department has more say."
Allergen awareness in the food industry has been building for a decade, and major processors had their label declarations and manufacturing strategies in place well before the January 1 deadline. The situation is different in the rest of the manufacturing community. Unable to dedicate people and resources exclusively to the issue, smaller firms are scrambling to comply. "Beginning in March of last year, we started getting an avalanche of inquiries," says Duester, who provides label consultation and chemical analysis services to small and mid-sized processors. "They want to do the right thing, but they don't know what the right thing is. There are no rules, there is only guidance."
Processing aids such as soy-based oils to lubricate baking pans are a grey area. And FALCPA doesn't cover business-to-business product movement, leaving smaller food processors at the mercy of their suppliers' disclosures and good manufacturing practices (GMP). Switching suppliers for an ingredient may mean all allergen-content bets are off.
The absence of threshold limits for declarations is the biggest sticking point. Although FDA has signaled its willingness to consider thresholds, zero tolerance is the current rule. "It is not unlikely," the agency states, "that FDA will at some point need to consider a threshold level for one or more food allergens in the context of reviewing a petition."
In the meantime, informal industry standards that exempted peanut proteins below 10 parts per million (ppm) are out the window. The threshold for a reaction varies from protein to protein and patient to patient; establishing thresholds places regulators in the uncomfortable position of leaving some people with compromised immune systems outside the protection of the law. Realistically, 100 percent protection is impractical. "A reasonable certainty of no harm should be applied to threshold levels of major food allergens," suggests Principal Scientist Jupiter Yeung of the Food Products Association, Washington, DC.
Take it inside 
Food plants aren't run by lawyers or marketing executives but operations managers and engineers. Many know people or have family members with food allergies or sensitivities, and the overwhelming majority is conscientious about controlling allergens in their facilities. Their interest is reflected in the swelling attendance numbers at workshops sponsored by Food Allergy Research and Resource Program (FARRP). The workshops, which typically draw 110 food industry professionals, have gradually expanded from one or two annually to four or five.
The first Canadian allergen-control program was staged in February, drawing a capacity crowd of 75, according to Susan L. Hefle, FARRP's co-director and an expert on food toxicology/immunology. Managers from major food processors, particularly cereal manufacturers and others with products catering to children, have been program mainstays since the workshops began. Now the audience is broadening, and specialized workshops for plant sanitarians and QA professionals are being offered. "People want more in-depth information," Hefle says. "In the next year, the demand for these workshops will increase."
Higher standards in facility design are being set as manufacturers try to limit the potential for allergen cross contact, notes Darryl Wernimont, a director with the Haskell Co., Jacksonville, FL. "Facility expenditures are being dedicated to improving the segregation and isolation protocols for product movement and exposure in and out of a facility," he says. In new construction, special attention is being paid to air-handling and drainage systems and other utilities and services.
Improved sanitation practices are the best option in existing plants, and the FARRP workshops provide a forum to share strategies. Vacuum cleaning and other dry sanitation approaches are gaining interest, given the ineffectiveness of hot water in removing allergen residues. Some processors are using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays (ELISA) and other tests and swabs to detect the presence of proteins on food-contact surfaces as a way to validate and document their sanitation procedures. ELISA tests for most of the major allergens were developed and validated by Hefle and are distributed by Neogen Technology. They usually can detect to 1-5 ppm. The tests are designed for finished goods, however; using them daily on processing-equipment evaluation would be overkill.
The perniciousness of allergen proteins - and the ability of science to detect them - was underscored eight years ago at a European meeting of immunoassay specialists, recalls Bruce Ritter, president of Gainesville, FL-based ELISA Technology Inc. A major manufacturer of hypoallergenic baby foods used an ELISA test to detect trace amounts of peanut protein. Despite repeated CIP cycles through the plant's stainless steel pipes, the allergen could not be eradicated. The contamination ultimately was traced to a valve that could not be cleaned out automatically.
"There's work underway to try to reduce the allergenicity of foods, as well as to detect it," Ritter adds. Hydrolysis, blending and other processes may neutralize the effects of some proteins. "Process manipulation could knock down many of the proteins," he says.
Ice cream manufacturers typically produce both nonallergenic and allergenic products on the same lines. They are dipping into technology's equipment arsenal to cope with the allergen-control challenge. Dreyer's Grand Ice Cream installed more than 100 mix-proof valves at its Bakersfield, CA, plant to enhance its ability to clean out egg, peanut and other allergen residues from lines before a nonallergenic product is run.
Package mixup is another danger. To minimize that possibility, Dreyer's used a vision system to confirm bar codes on carton-forming equipment. In Bakersfield, it migrated to tiny 2-D codes that are read by sensors. Intense light illuminates the 2-D marker, which, unlike the bar code, is unique to each SKU.
The core technology was installed by De Soto, KS-based Huhtamaki. "It's unlikely anything will get through our system," believes Huhtamaki's Paul Carter, director of continuous improvement, "but to protect themselves, many companies implement redundant systems." The switch to sophisticated scanner technology lowered software configuration costs and enabled the system to keep pace with Huhtamaki's fastest carton-formers, which output up to 190 units a minute.
Automated data collection to determine where an allergen might have been added is another relevant technical tool. Given system cost, however, there hasn't been a groundswell of interest in the FALCPA era. "I can't say I've seen an uptick in implementations of MES and tracking solutions, and I don't think I will see any," reports Jay Jeffreys, a marketing director at Wonderware Inc.'s Johnson City, TN, office. "This is just more confirmation that food manufacturers have to keep better track of what should and should not be in their products." If processors can meet the 24-hour response requirement of the Bioterrorism Act, "they certainly can manage an allergen recall," Jeffreys says.
Parallel processing networks 
General Mills and other manufacturers have tried to segregate allergen processing in dedicated facilities. It's an expensive and, often, impractical solution. Just as interest in natural and organic foods has encouraged construction of dedicated processing facilities, the allergen-free market could feed further manufacturing fragmentation.
Frustrated by hard-to-decipher food labels of the past and fearful of feeding the wrong product to their children, some consumers are abandoning mainstream manufacturers and retailers. "I know quite a few people who steer clear of general retailers," says Denise Lewis, founder of the Food Allergy Connection, Lenexa, KS, one of the many grassroots food-allergen awareness organizations. "Some families worry themselves sick over mislabeled products. I'm optimistic FALCPA will make things easier."
Jenny Beith is another mother with a child with a food allergy. She took a more proactive approach: two years ago, Beith opened a gluten-free grocery store in North Aurora, IL. The store is also a bakery, with vegetable gums and gelatin serving as binding agents instead of gluten. A loaf of bread retails for $7, and the company caters to as many special needs as it can. Mail order is a growing part of Special Order Market & Bakery's business, and Beith is developing her web site to accept Internet orders.
Anne Munoz-Furlong would prefer that mainstream food companies adapt their production schedules and train their employees in proper allergen handling than see a parallel production system develop. As founder of the 30,000-member Food Allergy and Anaphylaxis Network (FAAN), her opinion carries weight. "The onus is on food manufacturers to do everything in their power to prevent cross contamination and properly label their products," Munoz-Furlong says, adding, "If you put 'may contain' on the label, you might as well put, 'don't eat.'"
Because most food-allergy sufferers are children, the allergen-free community is huge, she notes. "It not only touches 11 million families but their grandparents' households and the families of their friends," Munoz-Furlong says. She cites a FAAN survey that found 94 percent of school nurses reported at least one child with food allergies attended their schools; 60 percent of nurses reported an increase in the affected population in the previous five years.
"It all boils down to trust," she concludes. "If people affected by food allergies trust the information they are given, they will trust that product, and they become very brand loyal and tell everyone else."
Food-related allergies and sensitivities are growing and are part of a larger public health debate. Some theorize there is a link between immune responses and expansion of childhood immunizations. Until 1988, only seven immunizations were given; now children need more than 20 before enrolling in school. Mercury transmitted during the inoculations is suspected by some of compromising children's gastrointestinal tract, allowing undigested food to get into the bloodstream and triggering immune-system reactions.
The autistic population is skyrocketing, with the Centers for Disease Control estimating one in 166 children are affected, up from one in 10,000 in 1990. Many mothers in grassroots organizations have shared their experiences in improving their autistic children's health by eliminating certain allergens from their diets.
Similarly, the cyliac-disease community is booming. According to Beith, "one in 133 people have cyliac disease, but only a third of the cases have been diagnosed."
The public-health implications are beyond the food industry's effect. Manufacturers hold the key to some of the changes needed, beginning with proper labeling. Rather than a regulatory burden, FALCPA may represent the first of many positive changes to come.

</file>

<file= AmE06_E29>

Today, Dwayne Oyler and Jenny Wu are living large. That wasn't quite the case back when they were working as associates at Toshiko Mori Architect and Gluckman Mayner Architects, respectively, and renting a tiny New York apartment, only 250 square feet. During that time, the couple established Oyler Wu Collaborative and began to heed the lure of Los Angeles. Wu is a native. Plus, says Oyler, "It has more variety."
They first explored Venice Beach and its bungalows after making the move - and marrying - two years ago. "But we still liked living in an apartment, New York - style," Wu recalls. A visit to craigslist.org led the couple downtown to the American Cement Building, which had been converted into lofts.
One draw was the building's tenant list: Architects and photographers as well as the inevitable "industry" professionals provided an instant coterie of kindred spirits. Another attraction was the building itself. Built by DMJM in 1964, this unofficial Wilshire Boulevard landmark has a facade of interwoven concrete X's that are both stunning and structural. The configuration, Oyler explains, eliminates the need for columns inside the building. (Except in the garage.)
The 1,400-square-foot space that the couple rented presented an absolute tabula rasa. "All we had," Wu says, "was concrete everywhere." Bare-bones amenities were limited to a small bathroom and a kitchen with plastic-laminate cabinetry and a stainless-steel sink.
Faced with fashioning an all-inclusive live-work environment, the architects were adamant that nothing should diminish the openness or the experience of the building's intrinsic sculpture. In order to appreciate both to the fullest, the pair lived in the empty space for four months, taking the time to experiment with diverse schemes before deciding on one that they could construct themselves. The result would still have to look finished enough to show off to prospective clients, since Oyler Wu Collaborative was yet to have a body of built work.
Oyler and Wu worked entirely with shop-grade birch plywood at a cost-effective $40 per sheet. "And we had the table saw and drills to do it ourselves," Oyler says. The literal backbone of the design is a 7-foot-high partition that runs 24 feet from front to back, separating the public zone from the bedroom and anchoring just about everything. Slightly splayed in plan, starting at 12 inches wide and eventually angling out to 30, the wall also handles diverse storage requirements - for personal paraphernalia as well as computers, a printer, and a scanner.
To counterbalance the wall's industrial mass with a more ethereal quality, the architects left some panels as open frames, then stretched translucent white chiffon over them. The same holds true for the wall's two shojilike doors, which mark a subtle division between work and home. Oyler and Wu built the door frames from shaved-down two-by-fours. "We laid out the frames on the floor and lived around them for a month," Wu says. "They look simple, but there are many complex junctions."
Oyler and Wu's shared plywood desk, attached at one end to the wall, extends 16 feet into the public space. As for the desk's top, Wu says, "It was the last thing to do, and we were running out of money." Stone was clearly beyond their means. Stainless steel was, too. So the couple opted for cement-board, which they sanded and finished with three coats of polyurethane.
Spanning the 33-foot-long window wall in front of the desk is a triple-tiered low plywood shelving unit where the architects display their models, creating a miniature city against a backdrop of the real thing. Taller pine shelving, purchased this time, houses the couple's library and keeps Oyler's collection of stringed instruments within reach. In breaks from work, he reaches for a guitar, mandolin, bass, or German 19th-century violin. Wu, for her part, keeps up with flute and piano. Talk about multitasking and multitalent.
Additional furnishings are few. The live-work area is outfitted with Paola Lenti's braided rope-yarn chaise longue and rug, Piero Lissoni's stainless-steel mesh chairs, and Oyler's own cantilevered cocktail table in plywood, pine, and cement-board - the base weighted down with pennies. The bedroom holds simple rectilinear pieces that Oyler made while living in New York: a cherrywood bed, a maple armchair, and a pine desk with drawers made of wine crates.
So far, the minimal scheme is working. "We can't take prospective clients to, say, the big courthouse we've just built. So we bring them here, where we can show our attention to detail and ability to pull it together," Wu says. Just ask developer Sven Altmetz, who was on the hunt for architects to design a ground-up loft building in Venice. He came. He saw. He commissioned.

Italy's South Tyrol has a split personality. It's culturally part Italian and part Austrian, with a dense dialect comprehensible only to natives. Yet the Winecenter Kaltern, nestled amid the Dolomites, has nothing split about it. Representing a collaborative of 410 regional vineyards, the tri-level building combines shopping and tasting areas in one clean, harmonious sweep that shows equal respect to all the bottles, whether a $10 table wine or a $300 Trento Denominazione di Origine Controllata.
The commission resulted from an invitational competition between five firms. Among them, the only one not in Italy was Feld72, an Austrian firm with a name derived from the office's street address. However, two of Feld72's five architect partners - most of whom are graduates of the Universität Wien - were born in the South Tyrol, leading the firm to become involved in several competitions there. The partners won the Winecenter Kaltern job on the combined strength of their previous urban interventions and architecture throughout Europe as well as a measure of renown from the Biennale di Venezia, 2004: Feld72 did an urban-space installation there.
Facing the Strada del Vino, the village's aptly named main road, the Winecenter reveals Feld72's ability to bridge the centuries - led by Peter Zoderer, acting as project architect, and Anne Catherine Fleith, in charge of furnishings. (She's the one partner who graduated from the Ecole d'Architecture de Strasbourg.) The team came up with an L-shape building that simultaneously creates a high-visibility icon for car traffic and respects a 1911 stone warehouse across the road.
The center's beige skin of fiberglass-reinforced concrete panels imparts depth and substance, Zoderer notes: "Using them on the roof as well as the walls emphasizes the building's monolithic nature." At ground level, runs of frameless windows put the interiors onstage. Solar glazing on the upper levels has a translucent, scrimlike quality.
One wing, just a single story, is entirely dedicated to retail. The conjoined three-story tower has additional sales space at ground level, a wine bar and lounge on two, and a skylit tasting room at the top. With nary a full-height divider in the place, it seems far larger than its 4,000 square feet. (And it actually is: There's a 3,700-square-foot wine cellar, open by appointment.)
Aboveground, the interior is all white walls and ceiling, sand-colored epoxy-resin flooring, and acacia for the cash-wrap counter, the tasting bar, cabinetry, millwork, and some of the flooring. "There are very few materials, just white and wood," Fleith explains. "So the product stands out." Overlapping open levels carve up the volume into function zones. "A veritable wine tour is created through the complex progression of atmospheres and spatial impressions," Zoderer says.
That path begins with a figurative tour of the local wine country. Ambling along a central row of display tables, guests discover how the architects addressed one of their chief challenges: organizing and presenting a vast amount of merchandise. Tables for mid-value wine are all about utility, with an added pizzico of romance. Each can hold entire cartons below; the tops are incised to cradle single bottles, accompanied by laminated photos and text describing the vintage and vineyard in question. Along the walls, cabinets and shelves hold lower-priced wine. The most expensive bottles are stored in the cellar.
For the 40-seat lounge on the second level, Fleith selected tables in dark-stained beech and chairs covered in complementary black leather. In the tasting room at the very top, the palette lightens up with a long table topped in white linoleum and chairs with white leather-wrapped seats. "Against the white, the reds and yellows of the wine really shine," she says. Differences among merlots, cabernet sauvignons, pinot blancs, and Rieslings aside, the tasting room's only color comes from a row of small rectangular abstract paintings.
With neutral tones so dominant, saturated color truly bursts from behind the acacia doors of the three restrooms, completely awash in tinted epoxy. There's magenta for women, lime for men, and tangerine for the handicapped. Proof that the Winecenter Kaltern isn't completely sober, after all.

"Go West, young man," Horace Greeley advised. And Jason Pomeranc heeded the call. With Thompson Hotels properties already in New York and Washington, D.C., Pomeranc was looking to Los Angeles for expansion. What he found was the Hollywood Roosevelt Hotel, a National Register of Historic Places listee with a star-studded past. The find came courtesy of Dodd Mitchell, who was already renovating the 1927 landmark for new owners Goodwin Gaw and David Chang - and knew that they happened to be in need of a management operator. Since Mitchell was also, simultaneously, in the middle of a Thompson Hotels project in New York, he put out the casting call to Pomeranc. Last December, they inked the deal.
At the time, the Roosevelt renovation was almost complete, after 18 months of work. Before Mitchell arrived, the interior had been positively "decrepit," he says. Quite a comedown from the hotel's heyday. The first Academy Awards took place there in 1929, and the duplex penthouse was a rendezvous destination for Clark Gable and Carole Lombard.
Every inch bears the Dodd Mitchell Design stamp, 300,000 square feet of interior and exterior space, total. For starters, that means 300 rooms - 240 in the original 12-story tower, 60 in a 1950's cabana-style building - the triple-height lobby, and the Tropicana bar near the famous swimming pool painted by David Hockney. Combine that with three new attractions, Dakota and 25 Degrees restaurants and Teddy's nightclub, and the result is a self-contained campus destined for enrollment by Hollywood's current tribe of starlets. (A magnet for boldface names, Teddy's was instantly splashed all over the gossip columns when promoter Amanda Demme clashed with light-sleeping hotel guests and L.A.'s liquor authorities. It's now closed temporarily.) Mitchell somehow got the whole thing done on a $12 million budget. "The fact that we pulled it off is ridiculous. But I started out my career at the end of a broom at a set-design shop. That makes anything possible," says the self-taught designer, a confessed high-school dropout.
Renovation always brings surprises. The biggest at the Roosevelt was the lobby's ceiling. Hidden behind drywall, the Moorish-style polychrome-painted surface was restored in a Michelangelo-esque process over the course of three months. To counterbalance that colorful composition, Mitchell designed large-scale, chocolate-brown leather-covered sectionals for the room below.
From the lobby, a vaulted brick colonnade leads to Teddy's, once just a "concrete box," Mitchell recalls. Today, it's a procession of arches, columns, and niches inspired by an underground church in Istanbul. Black curtains further define seating groups, some composed of massive squared-off club chairs in jet-black leather, others of vintage discoveries. The 19-foot-long crystal chandelier above the U-shape bar - topped in embossed faux crocodile colored a deep plum - is a testament to Mitchell's resourcefulness and ability to get things done. When an estimate for the fixture came in at $150,000, he bought the crystal drops in Spain, made the frame of polished steel in L.A., and outsourced assembly to New York. Total: $30,000.
A onetime club kid, Mitchell knows what it takes to get people to where the drinks are. Fire. At the the poolside Tropicana bar, nestled in a corner of the cabana building, an 8-foot-long fireplace is backed by smoked mirror. So far, Prince, Alec Baldwin, Jake Gyllenhaal, and Kirsten Dunst have been sighted lounging on the teak seating nearby.
On the cabana building's second floor is the Marilyn Monroe suite.

</file>

<file= AmE06_E30>

CONCERNED ABOUT THE REAL ECONOMIC CONSEQUENCES OF THE continued growth in health-care spending, more and more companies are trying to control these costs as much as they can through programs that emphasize the prevention of medical troubles. However, businesses are not content to simply throw money at the problem; they want to measure the financial return from their wellness programs. The challenge is finding the best way to do so. * Corporate wellness programs are nothing new. Companies have been trying for decades to steer employees toward healthier lifestyles in order to rein in health-care costs. Now, however, they're using new tools such as health risk assessments and incentives to identify the best programs for their particular workforce.
The evolving area of corporate wellness also has a new emphasis on measuring the financial return from these initiatives. And one of the most important requirements for achieving that goal is patience.
"ROI takes a number of years to materialize," says Jeff Dobro, M.D., a senior consultant with Towers Perrin in Parsippany, N.J. "In fact, the ROI during the first year is likely to be negative by at least 10 percent." However, Dobro suggests that companies that stay the course can generate a financial return that is one-and-a-half to two times the cost of these programs.
A study conducted by Oswald Companies, a risk management and insurance broker based in Cleveland, found that organizations engaged in wellness activities had health insurance premiums that were $1,030 per employee lower than those of a group of companies that had similar benefit plans and demographics but were not engaged in health initiatives. In terms of strategy, the study found that the companies with wellness programs were successful for four primary reasons:
* They had stronger and more pervasive communication, especially from senior executives, about the importance of wellness and its financial impact.
* They provided on-site health screenings, health risk appraisals, lunchtime seminars, exercise and nutrition programs, health-care consumerism training, one-onone coaching, and other programs.
* They provided meaningful but generally inexpensive incentives to encourage and reward employee participation.
* They achieved significant employee involvement in health promotion activities.
Developing a Wellness Strategy
Effective wellness programs don't just happen. Practitioners emphasize the need for a comprehensive wellness strategy. "It is important to have a defined plan based on a needs assessment and formal planning rather than handling wellness on an ad hoc basis," says Cathy Baase, M.D., global director of health services for the science, technology and agricultural products giant The Dow Chemical Co. in Midland, Mich. Baase says that the company identifies these priorities based on a wealth of data, including health risk assessments and year-to-year trends in health claims.
Dow's wellness programs have support at the highest levels of the organization. A few years ago, the executive leadership unanimously approved a corporate health strategy, recognizing that employee health is a significant economic issue for the company. Overall, the approach focuses on prevention, health-care quality and effectiveness, and purchasing.
The prevailing wisdom in the healthcare debate is that about 20 percent of employees incur close to 80 percent of health-care costs. Therefore, the key to an effective wellness strategy is to identify the individuals most at-risk for being part of that 20 percent, develop programs to help them avoid or manage health problems, and establish incentives to encourage employees to participate in the programs.
"Our goal is to make sure the relatively small percentage of employees who are driving costs are getting the right services and the right treatment," says George Murphy, executive director of compensation and benefits for pharmaceutical company AstraZeneca in Wilmington, Del. "But we also want to prevent healthy employees from migrating to that group by keeping them focused on healthy lifestyles." To better achieve those objectives, the company provides first-dollar coverage for prevention so that there is no cost barrier for employees. It also provides on-site programs to promote good health, including mammograms, fitness centers, and disease management programs. "These will pay dividends over the long term," he says.
Rewards for Healthy Behavior
Understanding workforce demographics and needs is paramount when developing effective wellness programs. Basking Ridge, N.J.-based Verizon Wireless's workforce has an average age of 34.5 and is 50 percent female. Because many of its female workers are in their childbearing years, the company has developed wellness programs aimed at ensuring healthy pregnancies and babies.
"Over the past three years, we have seen the length of pregnancy extended by two to two-and-a-half weeks," says Martha Delehanty, Verizon Wireless's vice president of human resources. "That is a real indication of success because research has shown that a longer pregnancy leads to a healthier delivery and a healthy baby." For the company, this result means that its prenatal wellness efforts may be helping its employees avoid giving birth prematurely. And if the organization can avoid even one premature birth, it could save millions of dollars. "That is huge when you have self-insured medical plans," she notes.
Verizon Wireless also strives to design wellness programs that mesh with its culture. The enterprise offers on-site Weight Watchers meetings to encourage employees to lose weight. But rather than granting discounts on the program or reimbursing individuals for the fees, it sticks to its pay-for-performance policy by giving monetary rewards to employees who reach their goal weight. "We didn't want to provide a discount because we wanted the reward to be tied to performance," explains Delehanty.
Companies can also provide incentives for employees who participate in wellness programs. For example, some organizations provide direct monetary motivation, while others offer discounts on health-care premiums or contributions to a health savings account. These enticements do not have to be large to be worthwhile. The general consensus seems to be that these discounts, contributions or promotions should be worth around $100 to be effective.
Who Is at Risk?
Some companies divide employees into risk-based categories. For example, a low-risk group would include employees with few or no health concerns, such as nonsmokers and those without a family history of ill health. This group would likely be helped by general health promotion programs, as well as offerings targeted to any specific risk factors they might face; expectant parents might benefit from prenatal education, for example.
A medium-risk category might include employees with several health risks or a chronic health condition like diabetes or epilepsy. This population could benefit from programs focused on disease management, education, and drug or treatment compliance improvement.
A high-risk category would include employees who exhibit several health risk factors and may even have had a catastrophic health event like a heart attack or cancer. This group would be the focus of case management efforts to make sure that these individuals receive the best and most efficient care. They may also benefit from some of the other programs typically offered to lower-risk populations, such as weight loss and smoking cessation programs.
Dow adopted a targeted, riskbased approach and focused on developing wellness programs designed to address the three health risk factors that were most prevalent in its employee population - obesity, lack of physical activity and mental-health issues. As a result, the company has been able to reduce the number of workers with those three health risk indicators by 10 percent, while also reducing the number of employees in the highrisk group by 10 percent and increasing the number of employees in the low-risk group by 2 percent.
Assessing Health Risks, Guarding Privacy
To gather this type of health risk information, companies are asking employees to complete health risk assessment questionnaires. With this data, businesses can identify areas where wellness programs are likely to have the most impact. For example, if a large number of employees are overweight or are smokers, the company can focus its wellness programs on weight reduction and smoking cessation. "We look for programs that will have the highest impact and the lowest cost to deliver," says Delehanty.
AstraZeneca uses health risk assessment data to target its wellness efforts. The company offers counseling and coaching to every employee shown to have two or more risk factors.
Because health risk assessment data is becoming so important to wellness programs, companies need to find ways to encourage employees to fill out the paperwork. For example, many organizations offer a reduction in health-care premiums. On the other hand, AstraZeneca increases health-care premiums for employees who do not take the health risk assessment by $50 per month or $600 a year. "It is important to create consequences around the choice of taking the health risk assessment," says Murphy. Other companies make a contribution to employees' health savings accounts if they complete the forms.
No matter how pure their motives, companies will need to anticipate resistance and take steps to reassure employees that the information they provide to the company will remain private. For example, The Raymond Corp., a Greene, N.Y.-based industrial manufacturer, uses a third-party vendor to tabulate health risk assessment data; the company receives the details only in aggregate and cannot access individual employees' responses.
What Is the Impact?
When measuring the financial impact of wellness programs, companies should look at multiple metrics, including overall health-care costs, absenteeism, disability, workers' compensation, productivity and retention. In fact, generating a clear understanding of these measures can help a company determine how much of an investment in wellness it should make. For example, companies in sectors with historically high turnover - food services or retail, for example - may find that investments in wellness programs do not pay for themselves because few employees stay long enough to benefit from them.
Dow keeps its U.S. benefit cost hikes at the lower end of projected increases to gain an advantage over industry and geographic competitors in the search for talent.
The Raymond Corp. uses its healthcare cost increases as the baseline for measuring the impact of its wellness programs. The company's year-over-year health insurance increase rate has slowed from 20 percent in 2004 to a projected 3 percent for 2007. Using this metric, the company has determined that its wellness efforts earn $8.00 to $8.50 for every dollar invested in the program. Over the long term, the organization's goal is to keep its health-care costs 25 percent below the national average, according to Kim Parker, human resources strategy and program manager.
To calculate the financial return on its wellness investments, AstraZeneca relies on its data warehouse of healthcare information. "We conduct a rigorous analysis of the past three years of claims, health risk assessment data, pharmaceutical benefit usage, longterm disability claims and so on," says Murphy. "This way, we can track changes over time. But we are not only making sure we have an ROI on these programs, we also want to see how they are affecting employees' health," he explains.
Although AstraZeneca is still perfecting its overall financial ROI calculations, the company finds other ways to gauge the fiscal impact of these programs. For example, the organization is measuring the success of its asthma program by looking at the number and frequency of participants' emergency room visits before and after participating in the plan. "We want to see if we are getting behavior modification," says Murphy.
Like other companies, AstraZeneca has an overall goal of keeping its healthcare outlays two percentage points below the national trend. "When you have health-care costs of $100 million, that can add up over time," says Murphy.
Getting Started On the Road to Wellness
With increases in health-care costs showing no signs of subsiding, companies would be wellserved by giving targeted wellness programs a chance. Baase suggests that businesses start out small on the road to wellness, based on identified priorities, then gradually add more activities over time until they achieve their goals. "Companies are spending money on health already, and that has an economic impact whether or not it is fully acknowledged," she says. By encouraging employees to become more actively engaged in their own health, wellness programs enable companies to turn that money into an investment rather than just a cost.

</file>

<file= AmE06_E31>

Early in the first half he set the tone by rejecting the Bruins' 7-foot center, Ryan Hollins, and then luring guard Arron Afflalo into a traveling violation and some serious smack talk. "I knew I was getting into his head," Noah would say later. "When he traveled, I told him he was scared. He said he was going to f--- me up. Well, guess who won?" Frustrated all evening, Afflalo ended up shooting just 3 for 10. And Noah was so confident that he began winking and blowing kisses at the UCLA cheerleaders ... with nine minutes left in the game.
"He's really long, and he doesn't go for shot fakes," UCLA guard Jordan Farmar said of the Bruins' tormentor after the game. "A lot of bigs leave their feet because they want to block shots. He just uses his length to his advantage. And he changed about 10 more shots than he blocked."
Has any college player ever improved more between his freshman and sophomore years than Noah? "He just went out there and worked every single day," Florida coach Billy Donovan said on the night of the final. "You could see him getting better and better and better."
In winning his first national championship, the 40-year-old Donovan finally shed the nickname Billy the Kid, showing just how much he had changed in the six years since he had led the Gators to the title game in the same building (where they fell to Michigan State). Part of his evolution has been personal. Once a notorious workaholic, Donovan now takes a couple of hours every night, even during the season, to chill out at home in Gainesville with his wife, Christine, and their two sons (Billy, 14, and Bryan, 9), two daughters (Hasbrouck, 12, and Connor, 4) and three dogs, including a black Labrador retriever named Alli Gator. He goes to his sons' basketball games, finds time to attend some of Hasbrouck's horse shows and brings his dad, Bill, a former player at Boston College, on the team plane to road games.
Billy was also there for his family after Christine had a miscarriage on the eve of the 2000-01 season, staying home for a week. "Billy was a huge support system," she says. "Every time I'd had a kid, he hadn't stayed home for more than an hour."
In some ways, of course, Donovan is still the same old Billy D (minus the slicked-back Eddie Munster coif). "I would say my personal habits have always been a little bit bizarre," he says with a chuckle. A fitness fanatic, he's just as likely to go on a four-mile run at midnight as at 5 a.m., and he often sleeps as little as two hours a night. After Donovan threw out his back jumping to his feet during a win at Kentucky last month, he ignored his trainer's commands to take it easy. Says Christine, shaking her head, "I had to put his shoes on for him every morning, and he's still going and working out!"
Yet it's Donovan's approach to recruiting that has undergone the most striking transformation. In 2000 his team was a reflection of its era, a hoops version of the brash late-'90s Internet start-ups: Florida defied tradition, hoarded talent from across the nation and achieved near-instant success--mostly at the expense of a suspicious (some would say jealous) establishment. But in '00, in Gainesville as in Silicon Valley, the bubble burst. The Gators were stung by early departures for the NBA by Mike Miller, Donnell Harvey and Kwame Brown, who stayed a combined three seasons at Florida. (Brown, the No. 1 pick of the '01 draft, committed to the Gators but never made it to campus.) In each of the five years following the '00 title-game run, Florida lost to lower-seeded teams in the first weekend of the NCAA tournament.
"The perception surrounding our program was that we had these high-powered, overly talented basketball teams, and I didn't think I'd done a very good job of recruiting," Donovan explained during a quiet moment in his Indianapolis hotel room during the week of the Final Four. "Guys were only staying one or two years, and I don't think I was prepared for that. The trick in college coaching now is being able to get those next-tier guys who are ranked in the top 25 to 100 of their class, who love the game, are highly competitive and have a good work ethic. As a coach you don't want to just win the battles in July [during the recruiting season]. You want to win the battles in March."
While Donovan's 2000 team featured four McDonald's High School All-Americans, his '06 champions had only one, sophomore swingman Corey Brewer, yet his four-man '04 recruiting class will go down as the most storied in Florida basketball history. After Donovan lost his top three players from last season--David Lee, Anthony Roberson and Matt Walsh--the onus fell on the Oh-Fours: Brewer, point guard Taurean Green and big men Noah and Al Horford.Roommates since their first day on campus, they developed a chemistry that's remarkable in today's college game. "I remember meeting these guys, and the first thing they said was, 'Let's go to the gym,'" recalls Horford. "I was like, Damn, they're already thinking about playing. When you hear that, you know you're with guys who want to win."
Their effect on their coach has been startling: Donovan now sounds like an Internet-bust survivor who figured things out in the new economy, and the Gators look like the Google guys of college basketball. "The more I do this, the more I believe if you're building a successful company or program, so much of it comes down to the makeup of the people, from your coaches to your players," says Donovan. "What sets these kids apart isn't their talent. They all complement each other so well."
The Oh-Fours all have their roles. Brewer, a high-flying 6' 8" matchup from hell, exudes a laid-back cool beneath his headband. Green, the son of former NBA player Sidney Green, yaps with the voluble Noah and wears a point guard's chip on his shoulder. Horford, the 6' 9" son of former NBAer Tito Horford, brings a sage, almost regal, unifying force to the quartet. "I feel like I'm probably the father figure," says Horford, who Donovan says is one of the smartest players he has ever coached. "We run a lot of stuff on offense," the coach says, "and Al could probably tell you what all five guys should be doing."
Yet the supernova of the tournament was Noah, who went from playing two minutes total in last year's NCAAs to assuming a dominant role this season, averaging 14.2 points, 7.1 rebounds and 2.4 blocks. Ranked only No. 68 in his high school recruiting class, the 6' 11", 227-pound Noah rose to potential NBA-lottery status in the past month by showing off a nonstop motor and a forcefulness around the basket that belied his nickname, Stickman (hung on him by Tyrone Green, his former summer-league coach in New York City, on account of his once-frail frame). So, Joakim was asked, Is it time to abandon your handle now that you're filling out? "Nah, I'm always going to be Sticks, even if I get buff," said Noah, who likes to adorn autographs with a stick figure.
The ponytailed Noah was also the MVP of the interview room last week, whether speaking in French to a reporter for L'Équipe; recounting his vomit-inducing workouts last summer "when I could have stayed in bed all cozy with my girlfriend"; or laughing about the picture of him, which has been widely circulated on the Internet, wearing a sort of giant full-length blue muumuu on campus. To be precise, Noah noted, it was a northern African jellaba, a gift from his father. "I always wear it when I just want to relax," Noah explained. "You don't have any underwear on, and the air's going up there. It's a great feeling." ("He thinks it's sexy," says Taurean Green, rolling his eyes, "but we just think it's ugly.")
Cecilia Rodhe, Noah's Swedish-born mother, likes to call her son an "African Viking," owing to his bloodlines. His globe-trotting French-Cameroonian father, Yannick Noah, the tennis Hall of Famer, is now a pop star in Europe. And although Noah's parents divorced in 1989, his family contingent in Indy--his sister, Yelena, his paternal grandmother, Marie-Claire, Yannick, and Cecilia--watched together from the stands last week. They all had their own memories of Joakim's meteoric rise to hoops stardom. When Joakim hugged his mother (a former Miss Universe finalist) after winning the most outstanding player award at the Minneapolis Regional, she teared up thinking back to the days in New York City's Hell's Kitchen, when her son was in the seventh grade and she walked with him in the cold to enroll him in a Police Athletic League basketball program.
Yannick, for his part, had sat in a Paris TV studio at 4 a.m. and watched the live broadcast as Florida clinched its Final Four berth. In Indianapolis he thought back to the trip he and his father, Zacharie, had made to see the Gators play two home games in March. "It was good to be the three Noah boys again," said Yannick, whose dad hadn't seen his grandson since Joakim's visit to Cameroon last summer. "Our flight was late, so when we arrived, the game had already started. There was a timeout, and my dad let go with a big whistle. Even with 14,000 people there, Jo looked up and raised his fist. That was special."
So too, naturally, were the scenes in Indy. In the Gators' 73-58 semifinal win over George Mason, Noah and Horford ended the greatest Cinderella story in tournament history without a shred of remorse. Not only did they limit the Patriots' big men, Jai Lewis and Will Thomas, to a combined 9-for-25 shooting, but they also altered innumerable shots and ruled the boards, piling up 21 rebounds. Even more impressive, Noah and Horford were also Florida's top assist men against Mason. "One of the strengths of our big guys is how they pass," says Humphrey, whose three rapid-fire three-pointers--two of which came on assists from Horford and Noah--sank the Patriots in the second half.
So skilled were Noah and Horford that they put the lie to the adage that guards rule the NCAA tournament. "In March you need playmakers and decision makers, and most of the time those guys are your guards," says Donovan. "It's a little bit different for us because the decision makers in a lot of what we do are Horford and Noah. A lot of our offense runs through those guys." Time and again against the Patriots, Horford and Noah pulled down rebounds, only to forgo outlet passes and dribble to the front of the Gators' fast break.
While Florida fans were partying in the lobby of the Omni Severin hotel in downtown Indy just three hours after the win over George Mason, Donovan and his staff gathered one floor below in a basement bunker to cram for UCLA.Assistant coach Donnie Jones edited clips of UCLA's offensive and defensive sets as the rest of the staff watched tape of the Bruins' tournament games. Standing before a massive dry-erase board, Donovan began drawing plays from the Bruins' screen- and stagger-heavy offensive sets, focusing on how to defend Farmar on pick-and-rolls. "You can have two guys go out and play Farmar, but that will leave one of their bigs wide open, and that's exactly what they want," Donovan said. "You want to make [Farmar] turn the corner and take it to our bigs and throw it out. Don't run two guys at the ball."
Florida's strategy worked to a T against the Bruins. Farmar's high pick-and-rolls were harmless, and to stymie UCLA's three-point threat, Donovan sicced the 6' 8" Brewer on Afflalo, who didn't score the first of his 10 points until 11:28 in the second half.

</file>

<file= AmE06_E32>

The airframe is rugged enough to withstand 3.25 gs of acceleration in its water-bombing configuration. This lets it handle steep descents and climb outs, as well as tight turns. This is critical in both putting water on fires and getting down to lakes and rivers to refill the water tanks.
To ensure the airframe retains its strength despite operating in and around saltwater, Bombardier added several layers of corrosion control. The two water tanks installed above the plane's floor, for example, are made of fiberglass. The other two are below the floor and made of an aluminum alloy protected with primer and an enamel topcoat. The airframe itself is made of several aluminum alloys with outside surfaces given a sulfuric-acid-anodize treatment, two coats of primer, and a hard-enamel topcoat. And systems such as the flight controls actuators use corrosion-resistant steels. As a result, the CL-415, which cost $25.6 million, has a design life of 10,000 flight hours, 50,000 scoops, 50,000 water drops, 10,000 land landings, and 10,000 water landings.
The avionics upgrade included a glass cockpit in which LCDs and display screens replace dials and gages. The crew-configurable displays show only what pilots need, which reduces potential confusion. It lets the fight crew look outside the cockpit more, staying aware of their situation in regards to the fire and their mission.
Bombardier added a forward-looking IR camera (FLIR) for the CL-415 that lets pilots pinpoint hotspots - targets for their water drops - despite thick clouds of blinding smoke. The designers also added more glass around the cockpit, giving pilots larger windows.
Bombardier designed the cockpit and aircraft systems so pilots need only complete a short checklist before starting engines and taking off for a fire. Aircrews can actually perform all necessary checks, start then shut down engines, and the plane can be kept in Alert status. In most cases, this means crews can then launch for a fire with only a 5-min notice.
Two additional water tanks give the CL-415 a total of four carrying about 400 gallons each. The four tanks, along with four drop doors, let crews gravity drop four individual loads, a pair of larger loads, or a single salvo, depending on whether they are fighting a major blaze, creating a fire line, or combating smaller, dispersed fires. Doors can be opened manually by the pilots or by a computer programmed for a specific approach to the fire.
To fill the water tanks, two scoops, each 5-in. wide by 3-in. high, open and extend from the aircraft's belly. (The left scoop feeds the left-hand tanks; the right scoop feeds the right-hand tanks.) The plane sets up for a normal landing, with flaps at 15° and a controlled descent speed. Still, the scoops hit the water at 90 mph. "But the hull meets Federal Aviation Regulations for amphibious aircraft, which sets standards for impact loads and are considered quite conservative," says Ciro Guida, an amphibious aircraft engineer at Bombardier. "And although the crew has to add power to compensate for the weight of the water being rammed in and the water-brake effect of the scoops, passengers might not even notice any deceleration or surge while the tanks are filled."
To make foam in the tanks, pilots select an option that injects foaming chemicals shortly after the scoops are retracted (or manually trigger injection themselves). The sloshing water settling effectively mixes the foam.
SUPERTANKER TO THE RESCUE
Firefighters almost always wish airborne tankers could deliver more water, foam or retardant, either to help put out or cool a fire, or to prevent it from spreading. If all goes well at Evergreen Supertanker Services Inc. in Marana, Ariz. (evergreen.com), those firefighters could get their wish in the form of a tanker based on a B-747 freighter. It carries 24,000 gallons, seven times the load of today's largest firefighting aircraft.
As part of a three-year. $40 million development project, engineers at Evergreen mounted 10 tanks to carry water and foaming or fire-retardant agents, along with eight air tanks on standard aircraft pallets. (Ground crew can quickly off-load the palletized tanks and return the plane to its freighter configuration.) The air tanks are pressurized to 165 psi. When there's a drop, pressurized air forces water out of the tanks and through four 12-in. nozzles on the belly of the plane. Flight engineers vary the pressure and how much water is released to tailor the response to the fire. But the jet can release almost 21,000 gallons in just 10 sec using full pressure.
It takes 20 min to refill the tanks, which must be done while the plane is on the ground, and about the same amount of time to repressurize the air tanks. Evergreen is working on a system that will let them pressurize the tanks in flight. The three-man crew, along with four to eight ground crew, can get the Supertanker launched in 30 min from an airfield, if it is at least 8,000-ft long. (80% of U.S. airports meet this criteria.) Then it takes 15 min or less cruising at 600 mph to be over a fire within 100 miles of the airfield.
The Jumbo Jet might seem too ungainly to be yanking and banking down low to drop water on flames. But Evergreen engineers, with agreement from Boeing, the plane's manufacturer, say that even fully loaded with 24,000 gallons of water, the plane is 150,000 lb below its maximum take-off weight and still below its maximum landing weight. So it can take off and land with a full load and still have a healthy safety margin.
Other aerial tankers take off at maximum weight and are straining their limits as they maneuver to drop water on or near the fire. The supertanker, with its much higher power-to-weight ratio, will make this a safer mission.
Because the Supertanker forcibly expels its water load straight down rather than relying on gravity, as do all other aerial tankers, its accuracy is better. This means it can fly at 400 to 800 ft for drops, a much safer altitude than the 200 ft needed by other aircraft to get the water on target. During a drop, the 747 will be in its landing configuration and flying at 140 knots, 30% over its stall speed. In tests, the Supertanker has flown 145 knots at 400 ft doing 30° banks without exceeding its well-established flight envelope.
There are rumors that when the tanker lets its load go at full pressurization, it generates 50,000 lb of thrust. "But even at full four-nozzle dispersal, the pilot feels only a minor surge," says Evergreen Supertanker President Bob McAndrew. "That's because we manage the flow so that is has minimum effect on the plane's center of gravity.
Evergreen already owns and leases a fleet of 54 light, medium, and heavy-lift helicopters, 30 of which can be used to fight fires, and a few 747s that it leases as cargo carriers. The company is working with the FAA and other agencies to get Supertanker certified and approved for aerial firefighting. It plans to convert two more older B-747s in its fleet to Supertankers, and lease all three, along with ground and flight crews, to firefighting agencies. Evergreen expects to get a 10-year life out of each tanker, but won't say what it will cost to lease a Supertanker, nor what operational costs might be.
AIRBORNE BUCKET BRIGADE
Since their introduction in 1983, Bambi Buckets from SEI Industries, British Columbia, Canada (sei-ind.com), have become a common sight hanging below helicopters of all shapes and sizes battling fires in California forests, the Canadian wilderness, the Australian Outback, and practically everywhere in between. The familiar red buckets, named to be memorable rather than for any association with wildlife or cartoon characters, are simple, relatively easy to use, and have been technologically evolving since their inception.
At first, the buckets were very low-tech: just collapsible urethane containers that hung beneath a helicopter and carried anywhere from 72 to 2,600 gallons of water. Pilots filled them by dipping and dragging them for about 5 sec in any body of water at least 3-ft deep. And when a pilot pushed the release button, all the water streamed out of a valve in the bottom of the bucket.
These simple devices are still used, but the bucket soon became a woven scrim coated with specially formulated urethane. Vertical reinforcements and fiber-glass battens replaced circular, ringlike reinforcements on the bucket. (As a pilot lifts a bucket from a lake, water pressure bends the shell and its battens outward, increasing the bucket's volume, hence the rule of thumb: A slow lift gives minimal fill. A fast lift gives maximum fill.) And the machined drop head, the valve that lets the water out, became a castaluminum component, which lowered costs while boosting precision and strength.
During typical firefighting missions, a helicopter burns fuel as it repeatedly fills and drops water. The lighter fuel load means the pilot can carry more water, but a one-size bucket prevented this. So SEI Industries added sizing straps that a pilot could cinch up at the beginning of a mission so the bucket carries less than a full load. After burning enough fuel, the pilot can land, quickly loosen the straps, and the bag is again at full capacity.
Another more important addition is Powerfill, which comes in three versions. It lets pilots fill buckets in murky, muddy water as shallow as 12 in. Powerfill II has a 500-gpm pump and goes on standard buckets. A screen stops large debris from being sucked into the bucket. Powerfill I has two 500-gpm pumps, and Powerfill III carries four of the same pumps, and both are for the buckets equipped with the newer Torrentula valves.
"In one fire, a commercial operator flying a Chinook (Boeing CH-47) carrying the 2,600-gallon bucket on the end of a 150-ft cable filled the entire bucket in 90 sec from a stream no more than a foot deep," recalls Jens Sigvardt, manager of firefighting products at SEI. "They could fill and drop in one-seventh the time of other helicopters because Powerfill let the pilot use a small stream at the bottom of a narrow ravine relatively close to the fire."
Another common accessory, the Sacksafoam, lets helicopters mix and drop foam. (As you can see the company owner likes catchy names. He named another firefighting piece of equipment, a pump, the Litre Hosen.) Foam does two major things for firefighters. First, it creates bubbles, increasing the surface area of the water and making it a more effective firefighting agent. And second, it decreases the water's surface tension, letting water penetrate into wood, houses, and other tight spaces ordinary water might not. In the past, operators had to dip buckets in holding tanks of foam.
Sacksafoam I is a fabric bag of foaming chemicals that attaches inside the bucket. The pilot checks a chart to determine how long to turn on the Sacksafoam pump based on the needed concentration of chemicals in the water (anywhere from 0.1 to 1%), and the size of the bucket being carried. The bag carries enough chemicals for a 1.5-hr mission. Sacksafoam II and III are carried in larger helicopters and can be refilled in flight. And Sacksafoam III, for example, is for helicopters large enough to have a second crewman, an engineer, who controls filling and dumping the Bambi Bucket and keeping it armed with the right mix of foaming agent.
The Firesock, another accessory, attaches to the dump valve. It's a mesh bag that creates turbulence and helps aerate the foaming agent/water mixture. And even if foam is not being used, Firesock breaks water being dumped into a finer mist, increasing its surface area and its coverage on the ground.
One of the biggest advances to the Bambi Bucket has been the computer-controlled Torrentula valve, which was mentioned earlier. It lets pilots start and stop water drops as often as they want. Pilots can also vary how fast water comes out by controlling the valve opening.

</file>

<file= AmE06_E33>

These benefits may include increased ultimate recovery, accelerated production, cost reduction by having one well do the work of two, or cost and risk reduction by avoiding costly intervention. Similarly, if placing adjustable downhole chokes in an intelligent well adds value, it follows that the optimum performance of the well will require changing the choke settings during the well life. The well-centric closed loop system described in this article can apply the same nodal analysis process that justified intelligent well economics initially to guide the well's operation.
The primary functional components of an intelligent production system with closed-loop control are well monitoring, well and reservoir modeling, decision making, and control and optimization. Closing the well loop, traditionally, has involved a human who monitors the well, observes how actual production compares to the original analysis and issues commands for the intelligent well to be reconfigured.
Closing the loop with automated systems can add value in several ways. Resource, equipment and workflow efficiencies can be maximized. Accelerating well recovery and prolonging a well's productive life by adjusting a few simple parameters can positively impact the entire reservoir. Controlling production and accurately forecasting production flows can help operators meet government regulations focused on field optimization. Combining systems and reducing human intervention at the well site reduces the exposure to commuting hazards and leverages the improved efficiencies of experts working in their normal environments, while enhancing the ability to alert operators when well maintenance is needed. Faster response and decision-making based on automatic alerts on certain pre-defined conditions can reduce costs and improve profits.
Adding automation facilitates human intervention by retaining the well model and changing the monitoring activity from polling to interrupt-driven to help maximize resource, equipment and workflow efficiencies, and improve well recovery, safety and reliability. Eventually, automated systems will be able to advise when wells deviate from their expected behavior in ways that prompt diagnosis of emerging, unexpected problems early enough to avoid them.
OPTIONS
During an intelligent well's early life, the surface subsystems that interface with the downhole equipment commonly operate as standalone entities that are periodically monitored and manually logged. Eventually, collective monitoring and data acquisition may consolidate the available data into a single-source repository and enable control from a remote location via a Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) system. These steps increase the amount of available data for making control decisions but do not change the means by which the data are analyzed. Because high volumes of raw data are unwieldy until analyzed, monitoring unprocessed data does not in itself add significant value to an intelligent well.
The emphasis on well-centric closed-loop systems going forward is to provide systems that use available data to enhance decision-making to improve efficiency and recovery above and beyond what is currently realized from intelligent well control and remote monitoring alone.
The slow-loop optimization process requires processing wellsite data with analysis tools that typically are reserved for operation at central locations. Using these same tools offers at least three options to close the well-centric control loop by automating data processing and output commands to modify the producing configuration of the well.
Option 1 involves sending an alarm to an operator detailing the recommendation for external review and manual control execution. This option most closely follows the traditional path of having a person execute the direct control and presumably observe the system's response. Preprogrammed analysis is delivered to the decision maker. The efficiency gain comes from automating the analysis, which limits the decision-maker's action to validating the conclusion and acting on the result.
Option 2 calls for performing the recommended control function in response to operator confirmation. This option increases efficiency when executing the change in control is complex and the system is programmed to deal with the complexity. An example where this option would be advantageous is changing the operating point for a downhole choke. Adjusting downhole chokes frequently requires executing a sequence of hydraulic outputs over an extended period of time. Using Option 2, the operator would receive a system message proposing a change to the downhole choke setting. The change would be implemented only after receiving a confirmation from the person monitoring the process.
In Option 3, the control function is performed, and the operator is notified of the action taken. The analysis and control capabilities required to execute this option exist in current intelligent well systems. However, because it removes human oversight from the control loop, it requires considerable confidence in the accuracy and stability of the entire process. It also assumes that the software accommodates the health, safety and environmental requirements and the side effects of any action that affects well production. The confidence to employ Option 3 will evolve in part from successes obtained with systems that are initially deployed using Options 1 and 2. Regardless of the control operations and feedback opportunities, some intelligent wells are more obvious candidates for early application of closed-loop control than others.
AUTOMATED CONTROL OF SIMPLE FUNCTIONS
Completing the well illustrated in Fig. 2 with interconnected surface support systems that consolidate all available data and control functions into a SCADA system offers many opportunities for automating functions and processes that reoccur throughout the life of the completion, Fig. 3.
For example, the downhole adjustable chokes will require many setting changes over the life of the well. After being trained and given written instruction on the manufacturer's hydraulic logic, well technicians can use a manually controlled HPU to adjust the chokes. Conversely, the HPU can be constructed for automation such that all valving can be switched by commands from a microprocessor. Replacing the manual HPU with an automation-friendly version yields numerous options for control distribution.
The first function for the automated HPU is providing the hydraulic outputs to adjust the choke settings. The system should also maintain a record of the current choke setting. The simplest method is to input the choke setting when the system is commissioned, then update the position with each hydraulic output cycle, which would change the choke setting. A preferable solution is for the control system to monitor a feedback parameter which can be fed into logic to confirm that the intended change has occurred downhole.
For an adjustable choke such as the Baker Oil Tools HCM-A, which is operated using a balanced hydraulic piston, hydraulic fluid volume returning to the HPU provides feedback. When the choke position is changed by applying hydraulic pressure at surface, the fluid volume delivered from surface will be the sum of the volume consumed within the receiving chamber of the downhole choke plus the volume required to pressure the control line. The volume returned to the HPU via the opposite control line will be exactly the fluid displacement volume from the opposite fluid chamber in the choke.
Without automated HPU feedback to confirm that the choke adjustment is complete, the operator can survey well performance indicators such as downhole pressures and flow rates for confirmation. The limitations of using only well performance indicators is that the parameter values corresponding to the choke position must first be learned from early well performance and adjusted as they change over time.
Programming logic to adjust the downhole choke ensures positioning reliability and operational efficiency. For example, the HCM-A adjustable choke has six unique choke settings in addition to fully open and fully closed, or 14 total identifiable positions including repetition of fully open following each choked position and following the fully closed position. The 14 positions are accessed in a repetitive sequence in accordance with the customer's specification for the specific choke settings needed. The most convenient choke adjustment sequence requires two hydraulic outputs, one to move the choke to fully open and the second to move the choke to the next setting in the sequence.The most inconvenient adjustment sequence occurs when the desired new setting is the previous setting. This sequence requires up to 12 hydraulic outputs. The value of automating the process becomes obvious when considering the time required to apply and bleed pressure 12 times. Depending on the depth of the downhole chokes and type of hydraulic fluid employed, it is not uncommon for 12 hydraulic shifts to consume more than two hours. By programming the control system to execute the shift sequence automatically, the well technician is freed to attend to other tasks. Additional efficiencies are gained if the process can be commanded and observed remotely.
Fig. 4 illustrates a simplified logic flowchart to manage either a single position change for a downhole choke or a change through several positions. In this example, agreement between the volume of hydraulic fluid returned to the HPU and the choke displacement volume confirms that the shift is complete. For other systems the feedback parameter is easily revised to handle variations on the tool functional characteristics. Variations of this logic have been used in eight surface control units. The additional expense for the control system is offset by the reduction in operator training needed to properly control the downhole chokes.
Using automation to shift downhole chokes and measure the volume of returned hydraulic fluid can close the loop within a subsystem for which a vendor is wholly responsible for equipment supply, including the sleeves and the surface control system. The same functionality could be programmed into the operator's SCADA system. However, it is more efficient to place the logic and control commands on the vendor's system because the programming effort to create the program logic is reusable for many applications. Because the entire logic implementation is handled by the downhole vendor, the operator minimizes the quantity and complexity of interface issues between the SCADA provider and the downhole equipment vendor. Low-level control commands such as, "Apply hydraulic output 'A'," "Measure return fluid volume," and "Compare return volume to expected value" reside on the downhole vendor's controller. Only higher-level commands such as, "Set Upper Sleeve to Choke Position 7" are needed from the SCADA system when it is linked to the downhole controller.
In this example, implementing control logic at the lowest level is beneficial. The approach is very compatible with a SCADA central control in that the command to drive the shift sequence can still come from the SCADA system, which can also monitor the progress of the sequence being executed by the HPU.
SCADA CONTROL FOR COMPLEX FUNCTIONS
An ESP-lifted well will need to be shut in from time to time. Given sufficient duration, each shutdown and startup provides an opportunity to acquire new buildup and drawdown data that can be processed to update the original reservoir parameters and modify the production parameters if warranted, Fig. 5. Assuming that the acquisition rate during periods of normal production is too infrequent to obtain optimal build-up data, the first action during shut-in will be to increase the data recording rate. At least one downhole choke must be closed after the ESP is shut down to isolate the two zones. Closing the second choke will further enhance the value of the data by eliminating wellbore storage effect.
When standalone interfaces control the well, capitalizing on the opportunity to obtain build-up data requires the production technician or technicians to manually execute the process. Shortening the time required to isolate the zones after production ceases will improve data quality. Thus, the objective is to reset the data rate for the surface and downhole gauges, shut down the pump, close the production wing valve and close the downhole choke in the shortest amount of time. Using a closed-loop control system, where the data acquisition components, ESP and downhole choke control are integrated, limits the technician's manual action to initiating the shut-down sequence and closing the (manual) wing valve. The remaining activities can be driven by the SCADA system. If the wing valve is automated, the entire process can be driven by the SCADA system with single command.
This level of integration is being considered for smart fields, whose aim is to tie all of the monitors and controls for a well into an addressable system and link entire fields to a central command and analysis system.

</file>

<file= AmE06_E34>

The story of Brother Thomas' ascendancy as an artist is one of a remarkable journey marked by a series of chance encounters, life-changing events, deep conflicts, critical interventions from friends and acquaintances, and even a brush with death when, in a bout with depression following his departure from the monastery after 25 years, he came perilously close to taking his own life. Thomas was then in his early fifties and for years had struggled with an inherent conflict that pitted the necessary restrictions of the monastic community against the fledgling artist's need for the freedom to pursue his art.
Years later he would write about the growth of the artist whose quiet inner voice cannot be denied, where limitations and constraints inevitably give way to a higher awareness:
"In the Japanese language there is a word that resonates with a common experience in the lives of artists. The word is shoshin. It means 'beginners mind,' a primal state of openness. In the growth of the artist's awareness, this beginner's mind emerges first without reflection upon itself, hence there is no consciousness of inner source or inner purpose. There is a shell covering the chick. It moves at this point towards acquiring skills to express an intuitive response to something wonderful. For years the artist's work is focused exclusively on technique. But gradually, or perhaps suddenly, the chick must grow out of its shell. Practical things begin to fall like the barriers they are. There is movement into a place of spirit in art. It is here that the person becomes truly aware that art is not something 'I do,' but has become something 'I am.'"
Brother Thomas' journey began in Nova Scotia where he was born Charles Bezanson (his name was changed to Thomas when he entered the monastery) in 1929. As a youngster, he showed an aptitude for drawing, which his parents encouraged. After college, while working in the economic research department of the Nova Scotia government, he volunteered weekends at the local handcrafts center, where he discovered day and had his first experience throwing pots on the wheel.
"The government job was just that," he recalls, "a job, with little satisfaction. One day a friend was listening to my frustrations ad suggested that I quit and go to Europe, 'while you're still young,' she said, 'while its still there.'"
And so, in 1958, he went. It proved to be a life-altering decision. He spent a couple of months in Italy, absorbing the art and culture, then traveled to Spain and Portugal, then London, where a chance encounter steered him in a whole new direction. Bezanson had spent most of his money and had no clear idea what to do next. One autumn day while sitting on a park bench in London, watching a fellow on a soapbox railing against the monarchy, he got to talking with a middle-aged man in a black suit sitting at the other end of the bench, who seemed to sense that Bezanson was at loose ends.
They got into a conversation and after a while the man opened a paperback book by Thomas Merton, a Cistercian monk, and read a short passage about a new monastic movement in the United States, a return to the original nonclerical concept of monasticism.
"He passed me the book," Bezanson remembers. "In it, I found the name Weston Priory, in Vermont. I got absorbed, my thoughts now turning to possibilities. I moved to pass him back his book. He was gone. Poof! Then and there I felt an awakening. I wrote to Weston Priory. Within a fortnight an answer arrived: 'Come. ... '"
" ... the beginner's mind is open to all that is," Bezanson has written." It is a wise Zen master within us. Life is always a willingness to begin again. ...  In the end, it is not the worker at all who shapes the work, or even the work that shapes the worker. It is the search shaping the searcher."
On a cold Christmas Eve in 1959, thirty-year-old Bezanson, soon to take on the moniker of Brother Thomas, came to the little snow-covered town of Weston, in the southern part of the state, and found the place that would be his home for the next 25 years. The priory, then just four years old, occupied an old white farmhouse that sat on the crest of a hill, next to a small white chapel. There was a moonlit sky, he remembers, and a backdrop of woods and mountains.
He took a short trip back to Nova Scotia for immigration papers, then returned to Weston to begin his new life as an American citizen and Benedictine monk--a life of Gregorian chant; of rising at 4 A.M. for prayers; of study; of work in the gardens; of tending chickens and other tasks, including his role as monastery treasurer. He found the small community of young monks a talented and compatible lot, and remembers his early years there as "blessedly happy."
As luck would have it, barely three weeks after settling in at the priory, a crate mysteriously arrived with a small electric kiln. Suddenly a new outlet emerged for the pottery skills he had learned at the handcraft center in Nova Scotia.
He started making things again--mugs, bowls, ashtrays, whatever would sell--contributing to the community's income. Though not particularly stimulating work, his skills improved rapidly. But as the years passed, his focus began to shift from these mundane objects to the more individual, one-of-a-kind pieces--predominantly vases and plates--that he especially enjoyed making and which have become the hallmark of his life as a potter. His reputation grew, and serious collectors started acquiring his work.
But despite this taste of success, something important was lacking. "The personal work was acquiring a dynamic of its own," he explains. "Something was happening that took me another decade to fully understand. The ancient immiscibility between the individual and the group had begun."
The conflict grew following a trip to Japan in 1978. The highlight was the chance to meet six of Japan's most-revered potters, all Living National Treasures. He had brought along pictures of his work, as well as small teabowls as gifts. The potters were impressed.
"One of them, Kakiemon the 15th, from the town of Arita, was especially responsive," he recalls. "I expressed to him the frustration that many potters in the West feel about the difficulty of getting pottery accepted as art the way it is in the East. He gave me his full attention, nodding sympathetically from time to time. After a while, he looked at me intensely and said simply, 'you just work.' Just work. It was a call to be faithful to the process. It was a classic Zen response."
The effect was profound. Bezanson returned from Japan with an affirmation that the path he was on was the right one, that pottery-as-art was what he was meant to do. With unquenchable energy he began taking every available spare minute to make pottery for himself. "I demanded more time for my work, even if it generated a 'me against them' conflict between my unique force and the common life of the monastery. I rapidly became the odd man out, the marginal monk." He felt excluded, angry, lost. He had to leave. He was 53 years old.
"My leap from the monastery was like a jump from the top floor of a burning building," he remembers vividly. "It was a crushing blow. Death seemed preferable to life. I have some inkling why people take that last step into terminal darkness. But I do know why I did not. Hope is the last to die."
Bezanson talks about angels as metaphors for the people who have played critical roles in shaping his life. Two such angels are a couple named Fred and Edith Bloom, who had been collecting his pottery for several years while he was at the monastery. One day the Blooms were walking along Newbury Street in Boston and one of them--he doesn't remember which--found themselves in dire need of a bathroom. They popped into the Pucker Gallery, met owners Bernie and Sue Pucker, got into a conversation, and told them about Brother Thomas. The upshot was an association that has lasted more than 25 years and has brought Bezanson worldwide recognition.
"Had the Blooms not needed a bathroom on Newbury Street that afternoon, I would not be talking about angels today," he says. "For who accomplishes anything without the angels in our life? They need to be remembered, if not always in words, then always in our hearts. I do."
But While Bezanson was grateful for that initial Pucker connection, his depression persisted for lack of a place to work. And then again, as if by some mysterious intervention, came a letter from the Benedictine Sisters of Erie, Pennsylvania. As it happened, sister Joan Chittister, the prioress, knew of Brother Thomas' work and of his need for a studio. She offered him a place--a former storage building that the sisters had recently acquired.
And so, in May of 1985, he moved his equipment to Erie. Within three months he had set up his studio, made dozens of pots and had his first firing. His spirits soared.
For the last twenty years, Brother Thomas Bezanson has lived and worked productively in his Erie studio, having a major show at the Pucker Gallery every other year, and seeing his pottery develop and find its way into an ever-growing number of collections, public and private, lie works mostly with traditional forms--vases, plates, cups--and there is a dazzling precision in their execution, lie has chosen to work with porcelain for the way it reveals his glazes with clarity and brilliance.
His studio sits across a courtyard from a residential building where he maintains a small room on a floor that he shares with several sisters from the monastery. His room is spare--a desk, a chair, a bed, some clothes in the closet. There is a common space and a kitchen. The sisters cook dinner. He takes a tray. He watches the evening news, maybe a show, reads, then it's early to bed. While sitting in his studio one recent day he points to the building across the way: "I spend little time there. It's where I sleep. This," he says, gesturing to the sprawling studio space around him, "is where I live."
Brother Thomas comes here six mornings a week at 5:30 and spends a couple of hours at prayer, reading, and having a light breakfast. He then starts work around 9 A.M. His studio is a quiet place where he allows things to happen without planning or agendas. A lump of porcelain on the wheel begins to rise and take shape. It may turn out to be a vase, or a plate, or some other form. "I don't know what I'm making until I make it," he explains.
At first glance the studio looks cluttered, but there is clearly order beneath the facade. Pots in various stages of completion sit on shelves. An adjacent room serves as his office; another is for storage of completed pots. He negotiates the space with the ease of someone who could do it blindfolded. Lifting heavy lumps of clay and 50-pound bags of glaze materials for half a century has kept him lean and strong. Though 76 years old, he could easily pass for someone a dozen years younger. Tousled gray hair and a medium-length beard add an extra dose of personality to a handsome face that is already full of character. His conversations exude energy, warmth and a sharp sense of humor.
Cycles of work last a year or more--time to produce enough pieces that meet with his satisfaction and can be sent off to Pucker for the next show. It is a period of creation, of allowing the work to emerge from within, of collaboration with the fire.
Though failures are common, some results strike him as so stunning in their beauty that they defy even his own understanding of how they happened.

</file>

<file= AmE06_E35>

Jennifer Post seasons her speech with the words that describe her life and her work. "I'm a purist. Some people don't like what I do. That's fine. There are enough people who do. I want to do something that's completely unconditional and unique for people who appreciate light and space, who want one very fluid, purist scale when they're at home."
White would seem to be the designer's only color: She uses it everywhere. "I literally have four white towels in my closet. That's it. White walls are very warm, and white cashmere is just as warm as brown cashmere."

Post grew up in Hamilton, Ohio, near Cincinnati. Her father was a chemical company executive who liked to take one of his children along on business trips. Post's siblings were not keen on airports and hotels, so she was delighted to have the chance to explore the major cities of the United States. "I had this incredible urge to travel," she says. "That's probably why I'm single, probably why I don't have any children and all I do is work. I love what I do so much that I can't wait to get up in the morning."
On those trips with her father, however, she never shopped and never went into stores. "All I wanted to do was walk the streets of San Francisco and Atlanta, Chicago, Boston, St. Louis." And as she walked, she absorbed architecture and design. In Chicago, she recalls "going all the way down and then turning and going back up Lake Shore Drive and doing it again because I loved to see if I could name all the buildings. I do the same thing in New York. I love walking down Park Avenue. I can name all the buildings and all the architects of the buildings."
At the University of Cincinnati, where she was already designing her fellow undergraduates' rooms gratis, Post decided that she would be a set designer and filmmaker, but this turned out to be an ambition that even such a willful and gifted young woman was not able to realize. Arriving in Los Angeles, she took her 16-millimeter film and tried to get into UCLA's film school. "I was number one in my class in Cincinnati, but they only take 12 students, so I didn't get accepted." She stayed on in Los Angeles and worked for actor Michael Moriarty and producer Norman Lear. "I did gofering work. I was on sets and saw how the world rolled, making movies. I thought my whole world had collapsed because I was not going to be a set designer."

Her parents nudged her toward Michigan State University, where she earned a master's degree in art. Then it was on to the University of London and elsewhere in Europe, where she learned about the art and architecture. "Like everyone else, I decided I'd start a career in New York. I wasn't going to Chicago - I knew Chicago like the palm of my hand."
In the following years she held a number of jobs, and as she learned and saved her money, Post prepared for the flowering of her career. "I was an art director," she says of that period in her life. "I tried to do film work; I worked under a couple of designers. I knew that somehow I had to get into architecture and design, and, through God's blessing, I did some styling for some stores, I did some window design, I did store displays."

At 30 she made her move. "I decided to open my own design studio. And I did it out in the Hamptons, on a little country road in a huge old barn." It was an entrepreneurial gamble that more experienced businesspeople would probably have told her could not succeed. Her working capital came from her savings and a small bank loan.
"Nobody wanted the barn," she remembers. "It was on Southampton's North Sea Road - it wasn't even on Main Street. I paid $500 rent." The designer did much of the fixup work herself, traveling by bicycle because her driver's license had lapsed. "I took the barn floors and made them white lacquer. I took oil-based paint and put it on the barn walls, so you walked into this very hallowed, angelic space."
As her shop was off in the boonies, Post made plywood sandwich boards that read "North Sea House Antiques & Design," with a huge arrow. "That's how people found me."
The arrow pointed the way for a man who helped launch her career. "It was in the '90s," she recalls, "when banking was really big. He pulls up in his Range Rover, and he jumps out with his golden retriever. He's obviously an investment banker, the protégé of one of the big guys. He comes in wearing his swim trunks and says, 'Your sense of style is incredible.' "
He had just bought a place on Manhattan's Gramercy Park and wanted to buy out her inventory, a combination of Biedermeier and modern pieces, which she had brought from Europe and displayed with the simplicity that has become her hallmark. A check for $100,000 sealed the deal, with an agreement that Post would design his apartment.

Even so, the opening of her New York office took some doing. "I was poor. I lived on cucumbers. I remember it was more important for me to buy stationery with my name on it than to eat well. Finally, I had my own stationery, my own business cards. I don't think I went out to dinner for three years, but I was determined, and my father never gave me a cent."
As it has turned out, there have been clients aplenty for what Jennifer Post calls "my look and my dialogue." It is the antithesis of clutter. "I hate drapes," she will tell you, "I hate fluffy fabrics. I can't stand Martha Stewart. I can't stand anything that's fluffy and pretty.
"I'm a modernist," she continues, "but I don't like it when people say that modern has to be cold. I'm for those people who want volume and light and space and elegance. Elegance! Elegance! Elegance! Elegance doesn't have to be brocades and heavy material. I'm for the confident person who wants life to be easier. When you have less, life is less complicated."
In addition to having an office in New York, Post, with her staff of five, is also working out of Palm Beach and Los Angeles. A self-described perfectionist, she so involves herself in each project that she rejects the notion of expansion or developing product sidelines. As she puts it, "I never wanted to have my name on towels. I never wanted to do a book. And I don't care about becoming rich. I'm 42. I've got the next 20, 30 years to refine and become better and better."

Paul Vincent Wiseman is one of those people who, like the Apostle Paul, discovered his life's work in a single moment. In St. Paul's case, it was a voice from on high; in Wiseman's, it was a friend's. "He said to me, 'Why are you studying political science? All you ever do is talk about art and history. Why don't you do something with art history and architecture?'" With that, Wiseman says, "everything just started falling into place."
The designer grew up on a California pear farm. "The nice part," he explains, "was that we were close to the capital, Sacramento, and close to San Francisco. So it was like growing up in a very rural area with a lot of sophistication. It's an unusual place; it looks kind of like the Mississippi Delta, except there are no snakes or alligators. We all live on islands connected by drawbridges. I am," he declares, "the only decorator in San Francisco who can drive a tractor and a 10-wheel truck."
Wiseman grew up on a California pear farm. "I am," he declares, "the only decorator in San Francisco who can drive a tractor and a 10-wheel truck."
Wiseman's grandparents were Southern California orange growers, but there was nothing isolated or provincial in his background. "The day after I graduated from high school, I went to Europe for three months while all the other kids were buying stereos and cars." After saving up for the trip, he went everywhere he could possibly go. "I put 12,000 miles on a car in England, France, Germany, Italy, Greece, Turkey, Romania, Bulgaria. I've never been shy about travel. I think that's probably been the most influential thing in my career - travel and looking at art and architecture."
Wiseman attended the University of California at both its Berkeley and Davis campuses, studying political science in preparation for becoming a lawyer. He spent his junior year in Australia at the University of Tasmania. This was the trip that changed his life. "Two of my friends came, and we worked in the pear orchards outside Melbourne for a month, and then we took six months off, coming home through Asia. That," he recalls, "is when I started really shifting. I'd always been very interested in architecture, art and history, but I hadn't really 'fessed up to it. I went back to Berkeley and hated it."
He began investigating design schools, but when he told his parents, they said, "Darling, we just spent all this money on your education. Why don't you go get a job in the industry and see if you really like it, and then we'll talk."
That's exactly what he did. In short order, he got a job with an office furniture company, then he was at Hexter Fabrics, then on to work for Winfield Windsor, the antiques dealer to whom Wiseman says he is indebted for guidance and training. After that he worked with Robert Hering, who did both antiques and interior design. "I loved it," Wiseman says. "But when I started selling so much, they fired me because I was making too much money. I was so upset that I decided I'd move to France, work on château restoration and suffer for the rest of my life. Meanwhile, my friend Sue Fisher King [a well-known San Francisco dealer] said, 'While you're suffering, why don't you come help me with windows?' " He did and was discovered there by two of his former employer's clients, who asked him to help them.

"So," Wiseman continues, "with $600 to my name, I bought an electric typewriter, got my resale number, got some stationery made and started my business in 1980."
A man with a rollicking, self-deprecating sense of humor who is serious about his work but not about himself, he says, "It's in my horoscope. I'm a Cancer on the cusp of Leo. You know, Cancers are very domestic, and Leos are very aggressive. So what do you do with aggressive housewives? You make them decorators!"
Wiseman the decorator has pronounced ideas about what he does: "I always try to explain to my clients that it's their house, not mine. If it looks like my house, I've failed. You can buy the right car, the right clothes, the right address, but when it comes to the decoration of your home, it's a very personal reflection. Some people are frightened of that, so they hire a look. That's not what I do.
"I try to teach my young designers that you have to listen on so many levels, because what's being said is often not what's meant." In addition to being "very intuitive," Wiseman has a disability that, he believes, helps him understand his clients. "I'm actually quite deaf. I have a 35 percent hearing loss in both ears, so I've always had to listen a little harder. I think that's been very useful in that I have to listen to undercurrents of emotion in order to pick up the whole story."
Even so, some projects are more satisfying than others. As he puts it, "There are three criteria that make the perfect job: money, taste and time.

</file>

<file= AmE06_E36>

Hopkins, whose previous large-scale work, the operetta Accidental Nostalgia, speculated on the delights and sorrows of amnesia, is also performing a memory play here. There is nostalgia for the possibility of collaboration between two famous modernist creators (Hopkins noted that Thomas died early of drink, a few blocks to the south of where she was performing) and the possibility of a kind of space-age futurism that seemed realizable then.
Yet Tsimtsum, with its sense of the apocalyptic collapse of this envisioned techno-future as expressed visually by Hopkins casting off the metallic space costume for more autumnal garb, seems a consciously post-9/11 performance piece. Her musings on "responsibility and irresponsibility" indicate a more sober environment, one in which creativity cannot, as a kind of utopian predicate, simply assume a social vacuum. Tacitly, this argues for a less charismatic conception of the artist, though Hopkins does clearly admire the bravado of Stravinsky and Thomas. Hopkins's body language becomes less meticulous and formulated. Her movements become more spontaneous and emotionally accessible to the audience. At the end of the piece, she subsides into a chair in a corner of the stage, seeming exhausted, yet also resolute, in a paradox that grasps the creative contraction of the title, Tsimtsum.
Hopkins, by the end, was wearing a red dress instead of a space suit, as the set itself is transmuted, resembling a cross between a bordello and an airport hangar. There was also a sense of release and of healing, Hopkins tells the audience that "you are no longer Dr. Cook," that their temporary therapeutic role - and the performance - is over. But was the point that the patient had reassembled an integrated Stravinskian memory? Or had she purged herself of the Stravinskian illusions of the past?
The Collective, featuring Rennie Harris, employed hip-hop choreography and Asian inflected costumes as well as a Japanese performer in their piece, Heaven. At first, four female dancers attired in black held the stage. Unlike Hopkins, who utilized a deliberately hemmed-in portion of the stage, the four dancers took advantage of the entire area, at times exerting themselves like whirling dervishes, at times anchored in fixed positions, sometimes advancing toward the audience in quasi-military formation, sometimes cavorting seemingly without regard for the audience. Eventually, a fifth, male dancer (Tony "Why KNOTT" Denaro), attired in bright red, appeared like a mystical quintessence in a cosmos of four natural elements. The joy of difference this immediately inspired was soon transformed into the sadness of difference, as it became clear the red figure was to be the sacrifice. Here, though, the sacrificed person was male, not female (the "Chosen One" in the original Stravinsky/Roerich conception of the ballet was a young girl).
This gender reversal, casting the male in the role of vulnerable victim, tallied with the movement vocabulary, far from any Stravinsky would have known, in marking a manifest difference between the Collective's practice and that of received modernism. Yet, in a way, the Collective's version of Stravinsky was the most "Stravinskian" in spirit. Its adherence to the fundamental principle of sacrifice prompted reflections on the role of exchange and substitution in the sacrificial economy, as explored in the thought of Marcel Mauss and René Girard, where sacrifice and expenditure assume a role in maintaining the social order that mandated a kind of relinquishment, sometimes cruelly mandating a relinquishment of life. As a commentary in a different "key" on Le Sacre du Printemps, the Collective achieved an effect not unlike Millicent Hodson and Kenneth Archer's meticulous 1987 reconstruction of the original Nijinsky ballet of Le Sacre for the Joffrey.
Dayna Hanson and Linas Phillips presented a much more irreverent interpretation of Stravinsky in Track 11. Standing stage right, Phillips, assuming the aw-shucks attitude of a college sophomore under-prepared for his seminar presentation and announcing he had forgotten the CD liner notes he needed, rushed off the stage and then returned to play "Track 11" of a putativeStravinsky's Greatest Hits CD (the audience is never sure whether this is an actual CD or just a spoof). An example of Hanson and Phillips' combination of irony and sincerity was their request that the entire audience stand for the national anthem, announced as a Stravinsky composition.
A film on a giant screen recounted some basic information about Stravinsky, especially the fact that he was born well-off yet always needed money; he depended on patrons for handouts, even as he lived in high style. At the same time, the film incongruously presented Stravinsky as an advocate for the homeless, introducing an elderly homeless man (impersonated by Hanson) who had once been bought lunch by the beneficent Stravinsky. Throughout this segment, Hanson danced in an offhanded manner that nevertheless kept the audience aware of movement in the tableau. The way Hanson and Phillips introduced the life of Stravinsky itself is somewhat taboo-breaking. There was always an attempt, in modernity, to exclude both the personal and the political, whereas Hanson and Phillips show us how important both these categories are. As in the Hopkins piece, the utopian predicate and the sense of social vacuum are vigorously challenged. As ludicrous as Hanson's and Phillips's reframing of Stravinsky's life story into that of ambiguous benefactor to the homeless was, its intent was not to trivialize, castigate, or mock Stravinsky. Stravinsky, who in his lifetime was often accused of truckling to the wealthy, depended on others for sustenance in the manner of homeless people. Alternatively, Stravinsky, in giving succor to people through his art, was in an aesthetic way an unquestionable benefactor.
David Neumann's hit the deck. (studies and accidents) was compelling in its rigorous choreography and deployment of personnel. As with the Collective, four dancers were joined eventually by a fifth figure, in this case a singer, Nicole Cherniak Hyde. Chairs were used as both a place of rest and an accommodation for the body as a mode of discipline. The dancers' approaches varied - sometimes stampeding intently, sometimes seemingly slightly abashed and aware of the audience, sometimes heedlessly making fools of themselves, as in the Collective piece, depending on who was watching. The choreography manifested an athleticism and an intricacy reminiscent of Twyla Tharp. Neumann has danced with both Doug Varone and Doug Elkins, and he exhibits some of Varone's bravura and Elkins's ingenuity. Yet Neumann's conception was as visual as it was tactile, reminding us that Stravinsky attained his cultural importance as part of a modernist avant-garde that included the visual arts. Neumann's work demonstrated qualities of the visual 
arts, collage, assemblage, and a scattershot yet premeditated organization of the readymade. This also operated as a kind of vestigial testimony to the important role played by set design in traditional ballet. The presence of a solo piano player as well as the trained operatic singer made Neumann's piece, which samples an array of music from many different aspects of Stravinsky's career, the most musical of the five.
Yvonne Rainer's AG Indexical, with a little help from H.M. had been hailed as her return to dance after many years of being more concerned with film. The piece was strikingly dance-centered. The primary multimedia element was a small TV at the lower right of the stage which showed Stravinsky/Balanchine's 1957 ballet Agon. But even this called our attention to the balletic element in Rainer's piece rather than absorbing us into a multimedia spectacle. "AG" in Rainer's title stands for Agon, while "Indexical" exemplifies her piece's relation to the Stravinsky/Balanchine original. Linguistic theory from the Russian formalist Roman Jakobson onward has associated the idea of the indexical, of pointing to something nearby but not organically a part of the original, as a form of metonymy. Rainer's dance achieves a metonymic relation to Balanchine's text, consulting it, pointing to elements in it, but neither emulating nor rejecting it. The four dancers include three dressed for Judson Church; the fourth, complete with ballet slippers, was dressed for City Center. The latter, Emily Coates, is a trained ballerina whose movements were variously embraced, harried, pestered, and framed by the other three dancers. The casually dressed "modern" dancers had different body types, which added to the impression that their physical manifestations constituted different styles of commentary on the conventional "dance body" of the ballerina. Rainer's longtime collaborator Pat Catterson co-created the dance, and her gestures, though a world away in specific motions from the ballerina's, convey an analogous sense of meticulous poise. Without effacing the difference between the two modes of dance, Rainer indicated both the stringency latent in her dance and the potential for creativity in Balanchine's.
Seeing Agon on screen in Rainer's piece crystallized thoughts generated when I last saw the Balanchine dance performed at Lincoln Center - in its combination of taut restraint and latent sense of playfulness, that Agon is imaginatively congruent with theNeue Sachlichkeit cultural moment in the 1920s and even with less "weighty" composer such as the Englishmen Constant Lambert or Lord Berners, who both wrote scores for ballet. That a level of playfulness was present even in the original obviates any potential for moralizing Stravinsky's legacy, by either parodying him or putting him on a pedestal. Rainer's tableau connected the playfulness of her own piece with that she elucidated in Agon. Conscious reference to a precursor only accentuated Rainer's ongoing commitment to the new. In this regard, "H.M." refers to Henry Mancini, whose unforgettable theme song for the Pink Panther movies is played, unexpectedly, at the end of the piece. Mancini's music was quoted by Rainer not so much as a pop culture riposte to Stravinsky but because it, too, has become a classic - the classicizing response can now apprehend even what once might have been regarded as kitsch. There can thus be modern classics and postmodern classics - the idea of classicism can operate as an open ended one. As Rainer, lithe and lissome at age 71, skipped down the stairs of the theatre to receive the cheers of the audience along with her performers, the overriding impression was of modernity still kept thoughtfully and buoyantly in play.
The following week DTW presented Forgeries, Love, and Other Matters, a joint venture by Meg Stuart, an American choreographer resident in Europe, Benoît Lachambre, a Québécois dancer, and Hahn Rowe, an American composer. The piece has been performed in Europe extensively over the past year, but this engagement was the first time it was performed in New York. The first image is of an elevated metallic scrim. Then darkness, pierced by a figure holding a flashlight who descends downward and to the left. This was Rowe, who performed a techno-casual mix of synthesizer and guitar on stage, occasionally interacting with the two principals. Stuart and Lachambre entered, and the stage was revealed as dominated by a large, matte brown, carpeted hill, sloping up to the metallic scrim. The male and female dancers notice each other, speaking only after a long while. Lachambre then ran up to the scrim and, seeing his own ur-nakedness in the mirror it provided, gave a primal scream of horror, more like Enkidu in Gilgamesh than Adam.
Lachambre's physicality prompted com-parisons to his compatriot, Marie Chouinard, with whom he danced in the 1990s, especially since Sourcing Stravinsky had already called to mind Chouinard's extraordinary performance of Le Sacre du Printemps seen at the Joyce in 1995. Chouinard's physicality is both atavistic and theoretical; Lachambre deploys the body more as a medium of expression, a kind of imaginative currency, and seems as interested in the body's micro-flexibility, its intimate interstices of movement, as in its aggregate physical power; Stuart's dancing seemed far less pronounced than Lachambre, spontaneously arising from human movement rather than proceeding from a formalized gestural language. Completely unmannered, it was more "fortuitous" than "improvisational" in mode. Even though Stuart, at one point, was nearly naked as well, she wore a floppy blonde wig throughout the performance and generally, in an anthropological sense, seemed more representative of culture than nature, in a way that both built upon and poked fun at gender stereotypes.
The first words in the performance, spoken by Stuart, were "Are we there yet?"

</file>

