<file= AmE06_A01>

City councilors scored a victory over the mayor last week, but it's a vote that may come back to haunt them.
The council overrode Mayor Jeannette A. McCarthy's veto of a zoning change that allows more intensive development of two properties in the Totten Pond Road-Route 128 area, to the dismay of more than three- dozen residents who turned out on one of the hottest nights of the summer for the special session.
Supporters of the change say it will spur revitalization of an area dotted with aging office buildings. Opponents see it as a symbol of big business trumping neighborhood interests.
The change paves the way for renovation or replacement of buildings that are at least 35 years old with structures that could rise up to six stories and house offices, shops, and restaurants.
When the council first voted on the proposal on June 26, supporters said it would potentially benefit six properties. As it turns out, only two parcels would be eligible, both owned by real estate giant Boston Properties.
The council voted 10 to 3 to override the veto. Siding with the mayor, Councilor George A. Darcy III of Ward 3, Councilor at Large Patrick J. O'Brien, and Councilor Stephen F. Rourke of Ward 8 voted against the override, echoing votes they made when the proposal came before the council in June. Councilor at Large Kathleen B. McMenimen, who voted against it in June, was out of the country. Councilor Edmund P. Tarallo of Ward 2, as council president, could have voted only if there had been a tie.
Several attendees said the council was ignoring the public.
"My reaction is and has been that the council seemed to be working in a vacuum," said Herbert Henderson, who lives on the south side of Waltham. "There was no effort to gauge the public's will for or against this proposal."
"They should realize that the mayor won by a big landslide, which indicates that the citizens are supportive of the mayor's vision of the city," Henderson said. "I do not think the City Council represents the people that elected them."
"I think it's time to start thinking about term limits again," said Doris Donovan, a longtime neighborhood activist with the Waltham Council of Neighborhood Advocates. "They just get too set in their ways. They vote as a clique."
Bill Fowler, who lost a bid for an at-large council seat last year, objected to piecemeal zoning, saying the city needs to draw up a master plan for development along the entire Route 128 belt. "We've been asking for a master plan for years, and they don't do it," Fowler said.
O'Brien said he might raise the master plan issue when the council resumes its regular sessions next month. "We all should be talking together, all the developers, all the residents, the property owners, not piecemeal, with each developer doing his or her own thing," he said.
O'Brien also echoed concerns expressed by the mayor in her veto statement that the proposal amounted to spot zoning. The ordinance's sponsor, Councilor Robert G. Logan of Ward 9, acknowledged that because of environmental restrictions barring development within 500 feet of the nearby Cambridge Reservoir water shed, the zoning district would affect only parcels owned by Boston Properties.
McCarthy said she would continue to pursue a "global traffic solution" to the Route 128 corridor, arguing that congestion would probably scare away potential tenants. "Traffic is the key component to growth, before zoning," she said after the meeting.
McCarthy said she would like to see more collaboration among property owners. She cited the example of Sam Park and Co., which has offered to finance a connector between Route 117 and Route 128 as part of its development of an office park on Green Street. Sharing the cost would be the Related Cos., which recently purchased the nearby Polaroid campus on Route 117.
The connector would ease one of Waltham's worst bottlenecks. Drivers heading for Route 117 now have to take the Route 20 exit and then wind their way through neighborhood streets. Park plans to extend Green Street and build a bridge over Route 128.
The project would be subsidized by $5 million in federal funds secured by US Representative Edward J. Markey, Democrat of Malden. The road project requires the approval of the City Council
"I am hopeful that the new design proposal satisfies Waltham officials and the neighborhoods impacted, so that everyone who drives to, from, and around Waltham can do so without hassle," Markey said in a statement issued by his office.
Sam Park and Co. goes before the Board of Appeals Tuesday for a hearing about variances in height and setbacks for the office and retail park.
Park and the Opus Group, a Minneapolis-based developer, want to build a 570,000-square-foot complex on Green Street, which is a short, two-lane road that runs south from Route 117, on the west side of Route 128.
The Green Street complex, tentatively named Altira, would consist of two seven-story towers.
Park said the ground floor would contain about 120,000 square feet of retail space, with up to 60,000 square feet more on the second floor.
It would include restaurants and small shops catering to office workers, but no "big box" stores, he said.
FOR A WHILE, the joke was on us. The administration and its minions of advisors had a plan for Iraq. The thing was, they wouldn't tell us what it was before the elections.
For a moment, the tea leaves describing the next epoch in the Bush administration's foreign policy seemed like they could be read on "The Daily Show." Earlier this month, host Jon Stewart chatted with James Baker about his new memoir. Baker, the former secretary of state to the first President Bush, co-chairs a bipartisan commission intended to help the current president chart a course out of the catastrophe in Iraq. On TV, Baker offered an aw-shucks, mock- naive, never-occurred-to-me-you'd-want-an-answer-right-now peek at the direction of the panel's recommendations.
Asked what he thought of staying the course, Baker coyly replied, "Depends on what the end result is, of staying the course." Asked about the prospect of partitioning Iraq, Baker allowed only that "we can't rule anything out." He went on to say that "we are not going to present our recommendations until after the elections."
But even though Baker offered few details, his presence said a lot about changes in the Bush administration's foreign-policy thinking as midterm elections loom.
As the Baker rollout began, polls showed that widespread American public unease with the Iraq war is jeopardizing Republican majorities in the House and possibly the Senate.
Baker's public appearances, whether by design or coincidence, offered a clever, disownable way for the Bush administration to signal that it had a plan for Iraq - one that it would reveal only after the elections, and one that didn't require the White House to give up itscampaign theme: while things might not be going well in Iraq, the problem lies with the cowardly Democrats who were for cutting and running. Even though details were withheld, Baker projected the kind of reassuringly pragmatic, center-of-the-road, experienced stewardship that he had brought to earlier diplomatic endeavors, including cobbling together an international coalition in advance of the 1991 Gulf War.
His media appearances hinted to Republican moderates, realists, and independents that the administration had a responsible plan for Iraq, one that was being worked on in the background by a bipartisan team of experienced foreign-policy hands.
What Baker perhaps unwittingly projected was that the Bush administration was no longer so alarmingly in the grip of self- delusion, with its endless out-of-touch pronouncements that the Iraq insurgency was in its last throes, that the resistance that US-led forces were facing in Iraq consisted of only a few hundred foreign jihadists and Baathist dead-enders, that Iraq was not in a civil war. Chief among the seemingly self-deluded, the president, the vice president, and the secretary of defense.
But what started perhaps as a campaign gimmick has turned into foreign-policy reality: the Bush White House has lost confidence in its ability to win the Iraq war. Acampaign to manage public perception of the White House's handling of the Iraq quagmire in advance of the November polls has led to the administration recognizing the need for a genuine policy shift, even as it sounds increasingly uncertain about what it should do.
"My attitude is: Don't do what you're doing if it's not working - change," Bush told a news conference earlier this month. Sounding suddenly shaky.
And here was Bush speaking to ABC's George Stephanopoulos last week: "Listen, we've never been stay the course, George," he told Stephanopoulos. "We have been - we will complete the mission, we will do our job and help achieve the goal, but we're constantly adjusting the tactics. Constantly."
According to the Los Angeles Times, among the options that Baker's panel is likely to recommend is something that would be almost a genetic reversal of the Bush administration's whole foreign- policy philosophy up until now: talking to Iran and Syria about becoming partners in stabilizing Iraq. This is a far cry from rhetoric about the "axis of evil."
Another option, called Redeploy and Contain, calls for a phased withdrawal of US troops to bases outside Iraq.
Foreign policy is an outgrowth of domestic politics. This administration is governed by the shrewdest, most sophisticated political operatives in history. And what's happening right now is stunning: Amid a difficult midterm election environment, the Bush team's central foreign-policy convictions are being transformed by domestic political realities - right before our very eyes.
"John Kerry's a new guy, a new man, a new candidate," he said. "He's got an agenda, he's got passion. He's an articulate critic of the administration. Their only complaint is, `Why didn't he say these things two years ago?' The response is, `Wow, that's not the John Kerry I remember.' It's a challenge for him to show that he should have a second chance."
Kerry now talks regularly of mistakes he made in the presidential campaign. He was never clear enough in communicating his message on Iraq, he says. He mocks Republican flip-floppers for supporting issues before they were against them, in self-defacing homage to his infamous statement that he voted for a war-funding bill before voting against it.
He said he realizes now that he should have used television advertisements to push back at the Swift boat group, whose claims of Kerry's war-service exaggerations were rebutted by most of those who served alongside him.
"Until they get bitten for doing it, they'll try to do it, and that's why we have to fight back so hard," Kerry said in the interview. "I just am tired of these guys. They're a bunch of frauds. They're bullies."
Candidates, of course, are thrilled to get help from a high- profile Democrat such as Kerry. He endorsed Jim Webb in the Virginia Senate primary long before Senator George Allen seemed vulnerable.
Murphy beamed at Kerry's side in Newtown, calling him "one of America's great leaders."
Murphy saw combat in Iraq as an Army captain. Kerry came to his defense after two Iraq war veterans accused Murphy of exaggerating his combat role, saying he spent more time at headquarters than on the front, a charge the candidate strongly disputes.
After that Newtown event, Kerry stopped by another Philadelphia suburb to appear on behalf of Joseph A. Sestak, the Democrat candidate who is taking on Republican Representative Curt Weldon.
There, Kerry got the kind of advice that he gets all the time these days.
"If you do run for president - and I do hope you do - fight like hell," one person at the fund-raiser told him.
"I'm in a fighting mood," Kerry responded. "We - together - lost to two lies: the lie about the war in Iraq, and the lie about me personally. And if you don't think that puts me in a fighting mood, you don't know John Kerry."

</file>

<file= AmE06_A02>

Diane Mattera wants to look nightclub owners Michael and Jeffrey Derderian in the eye and describe what her family lost when her daughter Tammy was killed in the The Station nightclub blaze that left 100 people dead 3 1/2 years ago. She wants the judge and the attorney general to know how outraged she was last week when she heard about the Derderians' plea deal, which she described as "shocking" and "lenient."
The grieving mother also wants the survivors, many of whom were badly burned and disfigured, to have their say in court at today's sentencing hearing.
But she won't be allowed any of that at today's sentencing hearing in Warwick, R.I.
Strict legal guidelines governing the proceedings prohibit addressing the defendants or offering opinions about the sentencing and allow only one representative for each person lost in the fire to make statements to the court. No pictures, placards, or other displays will be allowed inside the courtroom.
"It's been a very long and horrible week trying to write an impact statement that will have no impact," Mattera said yesterday.
Mattera will be among the crowd of victims' families, survivors, and supporters packing the small courtroom, hallways, and overflow rooms, as the Derderians each plead no contest to 100 counts of involuntary manslaughter today. Twenty-five relatives of victims have requested to read impact statements, which some said will include protests over the surprise plea agreement, despite the rules. The statements will be limited in length to five to eight minutes.
Other relatives of victims say they wrote a letter to the judge instead of facing the crowds and crush of media.
"Emotionally I feel like I've been hit by a tank," said Charles Sweet of Pembroke, whose son Shawn, 28, died in the blaze.
Sweet said he had little faith that the court will hear their voices. "I wrote an impact statement about how my wife and I feel. It'll probably be thrown in the rubbish."
In a letter sent to families last week, Superior Court Judge Francis J. Darigan Jr. said he will sentence Michael Derderian to four years in prison and spare Jeffrey Derderian jail time through a suspended sentence and 500 hours of community service. The sentence will mark an end to the criminal case stemming from the Feb. 20, 2003 fire, which started after pyrotechnics were ignited and flames tore through the soundproofing foam the Derderians had installed throughout the club.
The pyrotechnics were ignited by rock band Great White's manager, Daniel M. Biechele, who was sentenced in May to four years in prison after an emotional three-day hearing in which relatives of nearly half those killed either spoke or had their statements read aloud.
To prepare for the scores of survivors, relatives, and supporters expected to arrive at 8:30 a.m. today, court officials have added extra safety precautions, said Craig Berke, courthouse spokesman.
The proceedings, which will be broadcast live on Court TV and local stations, will begin at 9:30 a.m. with opening remarks by Darigan.
Karen Lapierre of Oxford wrote the impact statement her husband, Richard, will read at the hearing. The couple lost their son, Keith, 29, in the fire.
"As far as I'm concerned the judgment is out of our hands," she said. "When everybody is out there crying for blood, crying for vengeance, I just want to say that it is not our place to judge. When the time comes, and we are all judged, they will be held accountable."
After the statements are read, the judge will hear the defendants change their plea, then hear statements from the prosecution, defense, and defendants before handing down the sentence. If the hearing does not conclude today, it will be continued Tuesday.
Sorry, Deval, but the holier-than-thou act isn't going to cut it very long in the main draw of the gubernatorial campaign.
Deval Patrick was asked a few questions at a news conference this week that he apparently didn't like fair questions, the first and foremost being: You knocked Mitt Romney for raising $700 million in fees to balance the budget, so what would you have done instead?
His answer? He didn't. Rather, he ducked and dodged. And then he snapped at the reporter who had the audacity to be curious, "I'm not talking about government back in 2003; I'm talking about today." As questions continued, he abruptly stalked off the stage.
Now I'm sure that all his sandal- wearing, Volvo-driving acolytes from Newton and Lexington believe that their candidate has no obligation to offer specifics, just as they swoon every time he talks about collaboration in government and finding a better way.
But I'm guessing there are an awful lot of regular people who might be a little bit interested in knowing how Patrick would have bridged that yawning deficit of a few years ago, especially if he wasn't going to raise fees. And what they got was the back of his head.
Let's assume that he had to use the men's room in a hurry and by the time he got back, all the reporters were gone. So I called the campaign yesterday to give them another chance.
Campaign spokesman Richard Chacon patiently explained that everyone was missing the point, which is always a bad sign.
"The main point is that he thinks it's disingenuous for Kerry Healey and Mitt Romney to present themselves as tax-cutters when over the last four years, taxes and fees have risen significantly," Chacon said. "He was just calling for them to be honest."
I see. But back in April, Patrick released a written statement, covered in the Globe, in which he said Romney's fee hikes were "fiscally irresponsible."
So we're back where we started. If the hikes were irresponsible, and maybe they were, what would he have done instead?
To that, I got an e-mailed statement that, among other things, said, "A Patrick- Murray administration would have worked to increase efficiency and cut costs in state government."
Aha! Make state government more efficient! Press palm to forehead, please. Why hasn't anyone ever thought of this before? Every other governor in America is going to turn green with envy when they hear about this incredible plan.
The truth is, Deval Patrick may well make a good governor. He's certainly a charismatic figure with an inspiring personal story and a nuclear resume. But his campaign is heavy on the fuzzy rhetoric about new styles of leadership and light in the nuts and bolts of how exactly he might get things done.
During the primary, it was pointed out that Patrick was for the Public Safety Act of 2006, even as Patrick purported to be against specific provisions contained within it. Patrick seems to be for MCAS testing, but not entirely. He's against Romney's fee hikes, but won't say how he'd do things any different.
Sir, there's a Senator John Kerry on Line 3 commending your ability to be clear on the issues.
That little spat this week nags at something else as well. Many months ago, Patrick was the dynamic new voice in the state, passionate and matter-of-fact at the same time. He could walk into a room of activists or downtown leaders and answer nearly every question they had. If he couldn't, he'd say it up front.
These days, he seems so relentlessly on message that his words are getting the ring of scripted pap. He carries the veneer of spontaneity, but too little of the accompanying candor.
Maybe his advisers are telling him he doesn't have to answer questions, doesn't have to get specific to beat Healey. But they're woefully wrong.
Deval Patrick may well be no ordinary leader. But unless he levels with voters, he won't be given the chance to be any leader at all.
WASHINGTON Africa specialists criticized the Bush administration yesterday for not paying more attention to the increasingly volatile situation in Somalia, saying that senior officials were consumed by their efforts to stop the fighting in the Darfur region of Sudan.
In Somalia, Islamist militias have taken one town after another in the south-central part of the fractured nation since capturing the de facto capital Mogadishu in June. Now, they appear poised to attack the small town of Baidoa near the country's western border with Ethiopia.
Baidoa is the base of the increasingly powerless Somali transitional federal government, which is backed by the United States and Ethiopia. Analysts predict that if the Islamists attack the town, which appears likely, the conflict could evolve into a wider war with Ethiopia.
"We're completely distracted by Sudan," said J. Stephen Morrison, director of the Africa program at the Center for Strategic & International Studies and a State Department official during the Clinton administration. "We should be engaging the Islamists . . . and find out what their intentions are."
Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice yesterday delivered a major speech on Sudan before the Africa Society of the National Summit on Africa, calling on the government in Khartoum to end hostilities immediately and unconditionally accept a UN peacekeeping force. The fighting in Darfur has led to the deaths of several hundred thousand people and displacing an estimated 2.5 million people since 2002.
Rice talked about Somalia only in response to a question from Melvin P. Foote, president of Constituency for Africa, a Washington- based advocacy group, who asked what the administration was doing about problems in nearby Somalia, Ethiopia, and Eritrea.
On Somalia, Rice said, "We have been trying, despite the difficulties there, to support a transitional government that might be able to . . . help the country come together." She said the United States would not negotiate with any group that works with terrorists, a veiled reference to the Islamists who form the Consultative Council of Islamic Courts, the formal name of the extremist militia that is rapidly consolidating its grip on the country.
Somalia's interim Prime Minister Ali Mohamed Ghedi earlier this week appealed for outside help, saying it was needed to "protect the region from the expansion of this Al Qaeda network, these terrorists."
It is unclear whether Al Qaeda has recently made serious inroads in Somalia. CIA officials had been traveling extensively to Somalia before June under the protection of warlords, to whom the intelligence officers paid tens of thousands of dollars for information. The warlords are generally rivals of the Islamists. The CIA has been seeking three men in Somalia believed to have organized or participated in the 1998 bombings of US embassies in Nairobi, Kenya, and Dar es Salaam, Tanzania.
Most analysts say that small terror cells exist in the country, but that the chaotic nature of the country it hasn't had a functioning government in 15 years also poses a risk that Somalis could turn in members of a terror group for a ransom.
The question now is whether the Islamists, who appear to be led by members of Al Itihad Al Islamiya, a radical group that is part of the Islamic courts and led by hard-liner Hassan Dahir Aweys, want to provoke a war with Ethiopia, and what would trigger an Ethiopian decision to fight.
Among the worrisome factors: Aweys has said his movement aims to take over all historic Somali areas, including those in Ethiopia; Ethiopian Prime Minister Meles Zenawi, who is ruthless and pro- West, views Somali Islamists as a threat; and the tiny country of Eritrea, which has a recent history of bloody border wars with Ethiopia, is sending arms and money to the Ethiopian opposition movements in Somalia.
"My principal worry now is the Islamic hard-liners are creating conditions in which war with Ethiopia is increasingly likely," Kenneth J. Menkhaus, a Somali specialist and professor of political science at Davidson College, said in a telephone interview from Davidson, N.C. "A war would be bad for everyone the Ethiopians, the Somalis, the region, the US. The only people to benefit would be the [Islamic] jihadists."
Robert I. Rotberg, director of the program on Intrastate Conflict at Harvard's Kennedy School of Government, said Ethiopia is clearly worried about Eritrea's involvement and also wants to "nip separatism in the bud.

</file>

<file= AmE06_A03>

A lawsuit accusing AT&T of illegally collaborating in government electronic surveillance will help terrorists communicate "more securely and more efficiently'' unless it is promptly dismissed, a Bush administration lawyer argued in a packed San Francisco courtroom Friday.

If the privacy-rights case is allowed to proceed, AT&T will have to admit or deny that it gave the National Security Agency access to its telephone and e-mail networks and database so the government could eavesdrop on communications between Americans and suspected terrorists in other countries, said Assistant Attorney General Peter Keisler.

An admission either way by AT&T would betray "a state secret of the highest order,'' he said.

When Chief U.S. District Judge Vaughn Walker pointed out that the alleged cooperation of AT&T and other telecommunications companies has been widely reported in the press, Keisler said public confirmation or denial would allow terrorists to replace suspicion with certainty.

A "reasonable terrorist'' deciding how to contact cohorts weighs the risk that communications on a commercial network will be intercepted against the difficulties of finding other channels, Keisler said. By clarifying AT&T's status, he said, "you are enabling them to communicate more securely and more efficiently.''

Also, he said, a confirmation of AT&T's role in the program would "immediately heighten the risk that the company and its facilities would be subject to attack.''

The suit, the first of more than 30 now pending against major phone companies, was filed in January by the Electronic Frontier Foundation on behalf of AT&T customers. It alleges that the company has allowed the National Security Agency to intercept the phone calls and e-mails of tens of millions of customers for use in its program to monitor contacts with suspected foreign terrorists.

The suit seeks damages, potentially into the billions of dollars, and a ban on AT&T's participation in the program.

President Bush acknowledged in December that the federal agency has eavesdropped on communications between Americans and alleged terrorists abroad without the court warrants required by a 1978 federal law. His claim that he has the constitutional power to authorize the surveillance is being challenged in another lawsuit in Michigan.

Walker, who also heard arguments by AT&T to dismiss the suit, did not issue a ruling and gave no clear indication of which way he was leaning during the three-hour hearing. But he seemed skeptical of the government's broadest claim: that the entire subject of the lawsuit is a state secret, requiring dismissal without further inquiry.

"The state secrets privilege is not unlimited,'' the judge told Keisler.

At another point, Walker questioned the government's reliance on a 1998 ruling by the Ninth U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in San Francisco dismissing workers' lawsuits against a classified Air Force waste disposal program.

"Isn't this case different?'' he asked. In the 1998 case, "the whole program of disposal was a state secret,'' the judge said.

Walker could also dismiss the case on narrower grounds, by deciding either that AT&T's actions were authorized by the government; that the company does not have to provide proof of federal authorization because its role, if any, is a state secret; or that the individual customers have no right to sue because they can't show that their calls or messages were intercepted.

Electronic Frontier Foundation lawyer Kevin Bankston argued that the plaintiffs don't have to show that the federal agency monitored individual calls, because they have evidence that AT&T, in cooperation with the government, engaged in "wholesale surveillance of its customers.''

That evidence, he said, consists of company documents and a statement by Mark Klein, a former AT&T technician, describing the installation in 2003 of equipment at the company's building on Folsom Street in San Francisco that allowed Internet traffic to be routed to the government. Klein reported that only employees cleared by the National Security Agency were allowed into the room, Bankston said.

But Keisler, the government's lawyer, said Klein's materials and a supporting statement by J. Scott Marcus, an expert on telecommunications networks, were legally worthless.

"With all respect to them, they don't know anything,'' Keisler said. He said Klein's purported information about the federal agency's involvement consisted of secondhand reports, and Marcus' statement was "a mixture of hearsay and speculation.''

AT&T's argument for dismissal was that federal law protects communications companies from being sued for taking part in government intelligence programs.

If the company had a role, which it refuses to confirm or deny, it was merely a "passive instrument of the government,'' said AT&T lawyer Brad Berenson. He also told Walker that the company had no obligation to consider the legality of the program because it was solely the government's concern.

The judge said AT&T appeared to be arguing that "these programs are essentially immune from any kind of review.'' Not quite, Berenson replied, but the review should come from Congress, not the courts.; 

Local business leaders' confidence in the Bay Area economy has soured amid concerns over a slowing real estate market, higher gas prices and unrest in the Middle East, according to a survey released Wednesday.

The quarterly survey by the Bay Area Council, a public policy group, showed that its business confidence index dropped five points, to 55 out of 100, matching its lowest point in three years.

The results highlight an increased caution among local executives. But it doesn't necessarily spell gloom and doom.

Among Bay Area employers, 39 percent said they expect to hire more workers over the next six months. Only 11 percent plan to cut jobs during the same period.

"Executives are taking a sort of pause on the economy," said John Grubb, a spokesman for the Bay Area Council. "They're asking 'Which way is it going to go right now?' "

The survey, based on the responses of 509 business leaders, illustrates yet again the volatility of all things business in the Bay Area, where confidence -- as measured by the survey -- has peaked and plummeted several times since the September 2001 terrorist attacks. The highest point in recent years was 2004, when the index reached 64 out of 100 based on a large majority of business leaders forecasting short-term growth.

Any number over 50 means there were more positive than negative responses to questions about current and future business conditions. The index is on a sliding scale in which zero indicates utter despair and 100 commercial utopia.

Among the most pessimistic executives in the most recent survey were those hailing from the financial services industry, which includes banks, investment companies and mortgage lenders. More than three-quarters said they expect the Bay Area economy to be the same in six months or worse.

Their view is colored by concern about the real estate market reversing course from its impressive run-up over the past several years, and the home and commercial real estate loan business drying up.

Steven Buster, chief executive of the Mechanics Bank in Richmond, which makes commercial real estate loans to developers and investors, cited a slowdown in construction and developers reducing prices as ominous signs.

"Banks are like mirrors of the economy," Buster said. "What ever is happening out there, we feel the results over time."

On the other side of the spectrum in confidence was the information industry, made up largely of Internet companies, which are enjoying a boom in online advertising. Among its managers, 38 percent said they expect the Bay Area economy to be moderately better in six months.

The travel and leisure industries gave an even sunnier response. Nearly two-thirds of those executives foresee a moderately improved or substantially improved local economy.

Mike Depatie, chief executive of Kimpton Hotels & Restaurants Inc. in San Francisco, reflected the optimism, pointing to an increase in tourists in the area and passengers going through San Francisco's airport, plus declining office vacancy. All those factors translate into higher hotel room occupancy -- Kimpton has 11 hotels in San Francisco -- and, as a byproduct, higher room prices.

"I don't see any reason why it's going to change dramatically," Depatie said about the hotel business. "It may temper. But I don't see any falloff in the short term or intermediate term."

Despite the divergence in outlook between the leaders of the Mechanics Bank and Kimpton Hotels, they were in unison on hiring. Both plan to add to their workforces, in keeping with the survey's overall findings that 39 percent of companies plan for more workers in six months.

Buster, the banker, said his company plans to expand its staff by 5 percent this year, to around 650 employees; he now has 630. Depatie said he expects his company to grow by 50 percent from its current nationwide workforce of 6,000 during the next three years. Many of the hires will be outside the Bay Area, where the company expects to focus its expansion, but he nevertheless said staff will be added to the San Francisco headquarters.; 

An intelligence report ordered declassified Tuesday by President Bush offers a sober assessment of the spread of Islamic terrorism, finding that the war in Iraq is "cultivating supporters for the global jihadist movement.''

In ordering the release of sections of a secret national intelligence estimate prepared last April, Bush was reacting to an election-year leak that threatened to undercut his claims about the war in Iraq.

Bush said the leaks this weekend of portions of the document had mischaracterized the report prepared by analysts from 16 intelligence agencies. But critics of the war said the report made their case that the war in Iraq has distracted the United States from the real war against terrorism.

While only a few paragraphs in the released "key judgments'' section of the report entitled "Trends in Global Terrorism: Implications for the United States'' deal directly with Iraq, they do mirror reports in newspapers Sunday.

"We assess that the Iraqi jihad is shaping a new generation of terrorist leaders and operatives; perceived jihadist success there would inspire more fighters to continue the struggle elsewhere," read the declassified section of the intelligence report released Tuesday.

"The Iraq conflict has become the 'cause celebre' for jihadists, breeding a deep resentment of U.S. involvement in the Muslim world and cultivating supporters for the global jihadist movement. Should jihadists leaving Iraq perceive themselves, and be perceived, to have failed, we judge fewer fighters will be inspired to carry on the fight,'' the report read. The declassified portion amounts to just more than three pages of the 30-page document.

The report also noted that U.S. efforts "have seriously damaged the leadership of al Qaeda and disrupted its operations.'' It also said the philosophy of al Qaeda and other extremist groups is anathema to most Muslims, a fact that counter-terrorism efforts should try to exploit.

But the report said the terrorist movement has become more diffuse and "is spreading and adapting to counter-terrorism efforts.''

"Anti-U.S. and anti-globalization sentiment is on the rise and fueling other radical ideologies. This could prompt some leftist, nationalist or separatist groups to adopt terrorist methods to attack U.S. interests.

"The radicalization process is occurring more quickly, more widely and more anonymously, raising the likelihood of surprise attacks,'' the report concluded.

Before the section of the report was released late Tuesday, Bush said earlier in the day during a joint White House press conference with Afghan President Hamid Karzai that he had ordered all of the intelligence estimate released except for cuts needed to protect intelligence "sources and methods.''

Bush's National Security Adviser Frances Townsend said that in deciding what portions to release, the administration had to be careful. "We can't do further damage by declassifying too much,'' she said during a telephone conference.

Democrats anticipated that not all of document would be declassified. On the House floor, Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi of San Francisco called unsuccessfully for a rare secret House session to make the entire report available to all 435 members so they could see and discuss it behind closed doors.
She also said the entire report should be given to the public after "sources and methods'' were removed.;

</file>

<file= AmE06_A04>

WASHINGTON -- "America's suburb" is as economically vibrant and ethnically diverse as the heart of Los Angeles, according to the U.S. Census Bureau's first-ever demographic snapshot of the San Fernando Valley. 

Officially quantifying what local leaders have long known, the report released Thursday shows the Valley has evolved from a predominantly white bedroom community into a metropolis, with top wage earners as well as poverty, long commutes and heavy immigration. 

If the Valley, Glendale and Burbank were one city, the area's 1.74 million residents would make it the nation's fifth-largest city, behind only New York, Los Angeles, Chicago and Houston. 

"It's time for people to understand that the Valley as it was envisioned in 1950 is not the Valley of 2005," said Robert Scott, chairman of the Valley Industry and Commerce Association. 

"This Valley has opportunities and challenges that are very similar, in many cases, to the rest of Los Angeles." 

The Valley census tract includes San Fernando, Burbank, Glendale, Calabasas and parts of Los Angeles city and county. 

It also mirrors data released last month for the 27th and 28th congressional districts -- technically not the entire San Fernando Valley, but a significant swath. 

With strong support from Rep. Brad Sherman, D-Sherman Oaks, the Valley won status as a separate region with the Census Bureau late last year -- a distinction that could give it the detailed information needed to achieve the economic and political clout it has sought for decades. 

The designation capped a five-year effort that began after the Valley's secession campaign failed in 2002 amid bitter challenges over the accuracy of information about what would have then been the nation's sixth-largest city. 

Scott, who led the campaign for the Valley census, said the data will help business leaders and policymakers prove that while the region is distinct from Los Angeles, its population has the same needs as the rest of the city and county. 

"For those people who somehow think of the Valley as a bedroom community of well-to-do whites, that's a myth of 40 years ago," said Eugene Turner, geography professor at California State University, Northridge. 

The new report, he said, "shows that the Valley is not that different from the Los Angeles (area) as a whole." 

The average Valley family is older, better educated and earns nearly $12,000 more annually than a family in another part of Los Angeles, the report shows. But in other ways, Valley residents are strikingly like their city counterparts. 

The typical mortgage in the Valley hovers in the $2,000-a-month range, about even with the rest of the city. That mortgage is likely to account for about 35 percent of a household's income in both the Valley and the remainder of Los Angeles. 

Meanwhile, 13 percent of Valley residents earned wages below the federal poverty level last year, compared with 20 percent citywide. 

And when it comes to immigration, nearly 42 percent of Valley residents are foreign-born, compared with 41.2 percent of city residents. 

Similarly, a language other than English is spoken in 59 percent of Valley homes. That's the case in about 61 percent of all Los Angeles city homes. 

USC demographer Dowell Myers said Los Angeles overall is "remarkably homogenous" and noted that the city and county poverty levels are not strikingly different. 

The image of the city as "an island of poverty" is as obsolete as the image of the San Fernando Valley as the predominantly white burbs. 

"Reputations are usually 20 years out of date. People also think Orange County is a largely white Republican bastion, too. It's not. The image from the past is always what people hold onto." 

Daniel Blake, director of the San Fernando Valley Economic Research Center at CSUN, noted that there are more jobs in the Valley than there are employed residents in the labor force. 

"That's an urban thing," Blake said. "The Valley has become a job center as opposed to a bedroom community." 

Blake, who has been crunching census data for the Valley since 2001, also has said future Census Bureau reviews will provide a greater perspective on the changing Valley. 

The greatest information boom will come after the 2010 Census. 

Sherman said the Valley census will have important political implications when it comes to fighting for everything from transportation dollars to social services. 

"We need what any important section of a huge metropolitan area needs," he said. "We need transportation and we need housing." ;

UNIVERSAL CITY -- After more than a decade of false starts and neighborhood opposition, NBC Universal unveiled a $3billion plan Wednesday for its 391-acre property that aims to boost tourism, create a new community of 2,900 apartments, condos and town homes and improve transportation. 

Designed as a blueprint for the next 25 years, the plan also calls for expanded studio production facilities, more office space, and a "refreshed" Universal CityWalk and its adjoining theme park, Universal Studios Hollywood. 

Los Angeles Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa, flanked by local business leaders, hailed the proposal as "a blockbuster" at an afternoon news conference outside the entrance of CityWalk. 

"I think you can tell by the look on my face that today truly is a great day," the mayor said. "It's a great day for Los Angeles, a great day for the San Fernando Valley, a great day for our economy, the entertainment industry and especially for the future of urban development in Los Angeles." 

Those behind the plan say it would result in 11,000 new full- and part- time jobs once the project is completed and 17,000 jobs during construction. 

The existing and future studio, retail, theme park and residential areas are expected to generate about $21million in new annual revenues to the city and county of Los Angeles and more than $4billion a year in total economic activity throughout Los Angeles County. 

But announcing the plan is just the first step of what could be a contentious process. Since Universal City resides in both the city and county of Los Angeles, NBC Universal must file applications with both jurisdictions. 

The proposals will be subject to a public review and hearing process that previously derailed development proposals. 

But Villaraigosa aggressively tried to sell the plan Wednesday. 

"The truth is, we have no choice," he said. "With a housing crisis, traffic congestion and an ever-growing population, this is the face of smart, responsible, environmentally friendly development for the future." 

Seeking a clean slate, NBC Universal has been meeting with residents to keep them informed. 

But a meeting Tuesday night left many with more questions than answers, said Polly Ward, president of the Hillside Federation, an umbrella group for 40 area homeowners associations. 

"We did not feel we got any purposeful information on what they are planning," Ward said Wednesday. "Knowing homeowners groups as we do and as they do, they may be concerned about our reactions to specifics. 

"Everyone is concerned about traffic. How is traffic going to get in and out? That's the major issue. Spicing up the business on CityWalk and revamping the backlot, all that stuff doesn't bother us." 

Involving community 

In March, Universal announced it would be working on a plan after more than a decade of starts and stops caused by changing ownership and other snags related to traffic and noise. 

At that time, officials said they were scrapping any previous development plans and meeting with residents every three months. 

Villaraigosa also sought to reassure residents. 

"While I welcome this project with open arms and I completely understand your legitimate concerns about its magnitude and scope ... let me be clear: I have NBC Universal's commitment that this project will be a national model for community involvement, input and collaboration. The community will be a part of the process every step of the way, and I will personally hold NBC accountable to deliver on that commitment." 

If approved, the plan would give Los Angeles three signature entertainment complexes, including l.a. live near Staples Center and the Grand Avenue project. 

"Not too many metropolitan areas can say that," said Jack Kyser, chief economist at the Los Angeles County Economic Development Corp. 

"(Universal City) is going to be very important because it's an investment into the second- and third-largest (industries) in L.A. County as measured by employment: tourism and motion picture and television production." 

Key elements of the revitalization of the film and television production facilities include new and relocated outdoor sets, new postproduction facilities, soundstages, a screening theater and an expanded prop/costume shop. 

Idea for offices, more 

There would also be 335,000 square feet of new office space, including two new buildings and an enhanced child-care center with improved parking. 

NBC Universal and adviser Thomas Properties Group will negotiate with the Metropolitan Transportation Authority for a proposed studio and office at the Universal City MTA station. 

It would include 200,000 square feet of production facilities and 450,000 square feet of entertainment-related offices. Thomas Properties is also proposing a second phase at the MTA campus that would not involve Universal but would include a 400,000-square-foot office building with retail and parking. 

The plan would also include protection and promotion of the historic Campo de Cahuenga and additional parking for MTA transit riders. 

Plans call for a refreshed Studio Tour at Universal Studios Hollywood theme park, with new attractions and enhanced retail and dining facilities totaling about 80,000 square feet within the theme park. 

It would include improved and expanded parking and improved landscaping and pedestrian connections to the MTA station. 

At CityWalk, work would include upgrading the movie theater complex and enhancing retail and dining facilities. A new 100,000- square-foot live production studio would offer guests the ability to become part of the action. 

About 124 acres of studio property would become a residential neighborhood known as "Universal Village." Made up of apartments, stacked lofts, town homes and condos, the complex would include 35 acres of open space with hiking trails and parks. 

Within three villages, about 2,900 residential units would be connected by a street that would serve as the spine of the neighborhood and a town center with 100,000 square feet of dining and retail businesses. 

Transportation plan 

NBC Universal is working with the Los Angeles Department of Transportation, the MTA, Caltrans and the community on transportation proposals they say are designed to enhance mobility throughout Universal City and the community. 

Improvements under consideration include a shuttle system from Universal Village and throughout Universal City to the MTA station and a possible on-ramp to the southbound 101 Freeway from Universal City. 

Other improvements include modification of the intersection at Forest Lawn Drive and Barham Boulevard and the possible widening of the Barham Bridge at the Los Angeles River. ; 

LANCASTER -- Three Antelope Valley school districts will get more than $2.5 million in grant funding this year from a federal program whose goal is to ensure all children in the United States learn to read well by the end of the third grade. 

This is the third year of funding under the Reading First program for Lancaster, Palmdale, and Wilsona school districts, which spend the money on teacher coaches, materials and supplies, and training. 

"We love the program. It's made a big difference for our kids. We wish we could do it at more schools," said Diane Parkins, Lancaster's director of special programs. 

Funding is based on the number of teachers who are teaching in kindergarten through grade three at schools in the Reading First program. Schools are eligible based on student poverty rates and low- achieving reading scores. 

Lancaster is receiving $1.2 million, Palmdale $1.04 million, and Wilsona $279,500. 

At the Palmdale district, nine schools are in the program: Chaparral, Golden Poppy, Los Amigos, Manzanita, Palm Tree, Tamarisk, Tumbleweed, Summerwind, and Yucca schools. 

The grant money is used to pay for Reading First coaches, who help teachers with language arts instruction, training for the coaches, and supplementary materials. 

"These are individuals who have a background in reading and language arts. Their main job is to support and assist kindergarten- through-third grade teachers to fully implement the district's adopted language arts series," said Betty Stiers, Palmdale's assistant superintendent for educational services. ;

</file>

<file= AmE06_A05>

Floridians love the idea of smaller class sizes.

Seventy percent of Florida residents want to keep the class size reductions approved by Florida voters in 2002, a new St. Petersburg Times poll found. And they aren't budging even though many of them think smaller classes could lead to tax increases and the hiring of mediocre teachers.

"I definitely believe that small class sizes are better. But I also believe that's what is going to happen," said Tony Perez, who lives in eastern Hillsborough County and has two children attending public schools.

But Perez, like almost half of Florida residents, is open to one alternative being considered by state lawmakers: easing strict students-per-classroom caps in exchange for a guarantee that at least 65 percent of education money goes directly to classroom expenses.

Floridians could be asked to vote on that tradeoff if a constitutional amendment makes the ballot in November.

The Times telephone poll of 872 Florida adults was conducted March 14-26 by RSVP Research Services of Tampa. It has a margin of error of plus or minus 3 percentage points.

A statewide poll done recently by Mason-Dixon Research also shows majority sentiment in favor of retaining strict class size caps, though not by as wide a margin as the Times survey. Fifty-one percent of Florida voters oppose changing class size requirements, Mason-Dixon found. The amendment was approved by 52 percent of voters in November 2002.

Mason-Dixon interviewed registered voters. The Times poll included nonvoters.

Those in the Times survey who harbor some uncertainty about the so-called "65 percent solution" point to the proposal's failure to define what constitutes a "classroom expense."

"When you have vague bills like that, it's hard to interpret what they really mean," said Dean Berkey, a Sarasota County schoolteacher who has four children in public schools. "Just give us a definition and let us apply it."

The confusion crossed political, economic and racial lines. And it was not limited to the general public. Even educators have confessed to needing more explanation before making up their minds.

"It sounds pretty simple until you start asking the questions, such as what is the definition," said David Mosrie, executive director of the Florida Association of District School Superintendents.

Mosrie noted that one superintendent he knows recently wondered whether utilities might count. Not much education takes place in Florida classrooms without electricity and air conditioning, he said.

It's unclear whether the Florida Senate will back the proposal, which is moving swiftly through the House. Sen. Alex Villalobos, the Republican majority leader from Miami, said he will not support changes without answers to several questions, including how much additional money would go into Florida classrooms.

Lawmakers pushing for class size changes say they would craft a definition for classroom expense if and when the amendment succeeds. They say the poll results indicate a portion of the public is open to compromise.

"Those numbers are good news," said Rep. Joe Pickens, the Palatka Republican who is sponsoring changes to the class size mandate. "We have to get the message out that we are not repealing class size. We never intended to. The class size requirement that we have in perpetuity needs to be a little more flexible."

Many school district officials are counting on it.

Several districts are backing the 65 percent concept because they think it will ease the pain of class size reduction without forcing them to spend any more money in the classroom. The law currently sets class sizes at 18 for kindergarten through third grade, 22 for fourth through eighth grade and 25 for high school.

The 65 percent proposal would allow district averages rather than classroom counts, and cap individual class sizes at five students higher than the district average.

"We believe we need more flexibility, the ability to react to high growth and things going on locally, without having to worry about being in compliance" with strict classroom counts, said Wendy Hosking, a Polk County schools lobbyist.

Few of the Floridians polled seem interested in codifying the status quo. If they are going to give up some of the class size reductions, they said, they want to see more money going into classrooms.

"I feel like if you can put more money into the classroom, that's where it is needed," said Lynn Randall, a Pinellas County nurse with adult children who voted against the 2002 amendment but has since changed her position. "It scares me. I see the schools not putting out the education that I know I had."

Rep. Ralph Arza, chairman of the House PreK-12 Committee, said he thinks the class size changes working through the Legislature would allow school districts to spend their money more judiciously because they won't have to put as much into school construction or transportation.

"We are honoring the voters' desire - that 70 percent that support class size," said Arza, a Hialeah Republican. "We're putting a proposal before them that honors class size reduction but does it in a common sense way."

He said GOP polls have shown about 80 percent of voters back a mandate to put more money into the classroom, even when the details aren't explained.

Why tie the ideas of class size and classroom spending together?

"I'm a former football coach," Arza said. "Why put in one star running back when you can put in two?"

Jeffrey S. Solochek can be reached at (813) 269-5304 or solochek@sptimes.com.

CLASS SIZE SUPPORT

Floridians overwhelmingly support the 2002 voter mandate to reduce public school class sizes, despite protests by Republican lawmakers and Gov. Jeb Bush that the implementation cost is too high. But they indicate a willingness to consider trading class size caps for more money tothe classroom, given adequate definitions.

If you were voting today, would you vote for or against shrinking class size?

For: 70%

Against: 21%

Not sure: 9%

Would you be for or against a constitutional amendment that would ease class size limits but require that 65 percent of school budgets go to classroom expenses, or do you have no opinion on this?

For: 47%

No opinion: 37%

Against: 16%

NOTE: Margin of error+/-3 percentage points.

Source: Florida Education Survey

Times graphic - CHARLOS GARY; 

I received a campaign flier from Dunedin candidate Julie Ward Bujalski that quoted a St. Petersburg Times editorial that said: "Two (candidates) come across as best-informed on current city business. These two are Ron Barnette and Julie Ward Bujalski." These statements are followed by this caption: "St. Petersburg Times Recommends, Feb. 26, 2006."

The implication is that the Times recommended her. In fact, the next line of the actual editorial recommendation says, "We believe Ron Barnette is the better choice."

In that editorial, the Times lays out Ms. Bujalski's criminal record and states, "We are uneasy about some of Bujalski's history" and "the list of offenses is long enough to be worrisome." Does that sound like an endorsement?

On the reverse side of Bujalski's campaign flier, an attempt is made to smear Mr. Barnette.

Why would anyone vote to put someone on the City Commission with a criminal record, who has the propensity to create false impressions in her campaign literature and is the only candidate to wallow in negative campaigning?

Henry Penas, DunedinNew commissioner ran bad campaign

Re: Election of Julie Ward Bujalski.

I am wondering how I may consider the credibility of the new Dunedin commissioner elected March 14.

Her campaign material contained falsehoods about one of her opponents. I checked the allegations and found two were false and I questioned another.

Her opponent did not resort to any dirty tricks in his campaign. It surprises me that now we have elected her to finish the term vacated by the election of Bob Hackworth as mayor.

Mount Burns, DunedinRaces like these deter deserving hopefuls

Re: Candidate's tactics are malicious, letter, March 15.

I am in complete agreement with Bill Coleman's letter to the editor regarding candidate Julie Ward Bujalski's dishonest and malicious campaign tactics against Ron Barnette in Dunedin's recent City Commission race.

But I would like to add that it is this type of unethical behavior that discourages honest, well-qualified, well-meaning people from volunteering to run for office in this day and age.

I have been a resident of Dunedin for more than 30 years and have witnessed and participated in many local election campaigns during that time. Never have I been so angered and disgusted by the process used to gain a seat on the Dunedin City Commission as I have this year.

I respectfully suggest that this "win at all costs" philosophy, even if it involves unfairly smearing a fellow resident's reputation, bears careful scrutiny of Mrs. Bujalski's motives and decisionmaking skills as "Delightful" Dunedin moves into the future.

Who's next?

Paul Toner, DunedinElection proves charter ready for change

Finally, the proof was in the pudding, or I should say in the March 14 election in Dunedin.

Several years ago, I served on the Charter Review Committee with seven other able-bodied volunteers. We worked hard for 10 months on that committee, headed by Gus Cooper, trying to get it right for the citizens of Dunedin.

During that period I took a trip to Tulsa, Okla., and found that 57 people were running for mayor of Tulsa. I began to wonder why we do not have more people running for office here in Dunedin. I visited with the mayor's assistant who chaired the charter review committee at that time in Tulsa.

The answer is simple: No one wants to run against an incumbent and they certainly do not want to run against two incumbents. The present Dunedin system calls for the top vote getters to be declared the winners. If instead candidates run for numbered seats, the voters have a choice of voting for or against each candidate separately. That seems to be more fair for the voter.

In the March 14 election, no one ran against two of the incumbents, Dave Eggers and Julie Scales. Scales served well on that Charter Review Committee 10 years ago. All committee members served well. We discussed the idea of having seats assigned to each commissioner, which would have helped get more people interested in running, but the time was not right and we left the charter like it was on that issue.

When Commissioner Bob Hackworth decided to run for mayor in this election, seven citizens filed to run for the open seat. The citizens of Dunedin had a wide-open opportunity to vote for a candidate of their choice and they did. It was a great day for Dunedin even though there were not 57 people running like in Tulsa, but most of the seven would have made a good commissioner.

Congratulations to Julie Bujalski for winning in a great race. I believe the city is now ready for numbered seats so that we can have more open elections in the future. Let's get the charter changed now.

G. Wayne Dailey, Dunedin

Plans for water system are questionable

Re: Voters back plan for drinking water system, story, March 14.

Here's the deal as I see it. The town of Tarpon Springs hired a consulting company to perform a preliminary assessment of the feasibility of developing an alternate water source (note the use of the words "preliminary assessment").

The consultant appears to have done a very thorough and commendable job within the framework of the budget available and the existing data used for the study.

It would appear from this study that more study is required to reach a conclusion on the feasibility of the reverse osmosis plant.

In essence, our city government said, "Let's buy the thing now and decide later if we have the natural resources to run it." What should have been done is the taxpayers should have been asked to provide money to determine the feasibility of this plant and its potential environmental impacts.

To make my point, let me quote some of what the consulting company said in its report;

</file>

<file= AmE06_A06>

WASHINGTON -- Two weeks before Election Day, voters are more focused on national issues than in any previous congressional election, a USA TODAY/Gallup Poll finds, and they express unprecedented pessimism on the war in Iraq and downbeat attitudes about the economy.

Just 19% of those surveyed say the United States is winning in Iraq, an all-time low. And 38% say their own member of Congress doesn't deserve re-election, an all-time high.

As Republicans face a wave of voter discontent unmatched since they won control of Congress in 1994, Democrats are pouring money into congressional contests that until recently looked out of reach. They are running TV ads in 42 districts they are trying to wrest from the GOP, three of them new targets starting today.

Republicans have bought TV time to defend 33 seats and -- with the addition today of a Savannah, Ga., district -- are targeting five districts held by Democrats.

As the party in control of the government, Republicans need to convince voters that President Bush and Congress are doing a good job, that the war in Iraq was the right thing to do and that the economy is on the upswing -- the issues that are driving voter attitudes.

The poll, taken Friday through Sunday, shows no progress made on those fronts.

"It's been more bad news piled on top of already bad news" for Republicans, says Charles Franklin, a political scientist at the University of Wisconsin, Madison.

"Can they turn it around? In principle they can, but time is running short."

Some Republicans concede that Democrats are likely to capture at least one chamber.

"Most people think that we would have a hard time holding the House if we voted today," says Charles Black, a senior GOP strategist and consultant to the Republican National Committee (RNC). "That said, two weeks is a long time."

On one measure, Republicans did see significant improvement. Two weeks ago, likely voters favored the unnamed Democratic congressional candidate in their district over the Republican by 23 percentage points, 59%-36%. The survey was taken immediately after Florida Rep. Mark Foley resigned in the congressional page scandal.

Now, the Democratic advantage on the generic congressional ballot has narrowed to 13 points, 54%-41%.

Still, that is more than the 12-point advantage Republicans held at this point in 1994, weeks before they swept to control of the House and Senate during President Clinton's first term, and higher than the margin held by either party in elections since then.

For months, Rep. Tom Reynolds, head of the National Republican Congressional Committee and who himself is in a tough race, has insisted that GOP candidates would survive a difficult political landscape because House elections traditionally turn on local issues, not national ones.

However, in the new poll, 43% of likely voters say national issues will make the biggest difference in their vote; 24% say local or state issues. That's the first overwhelming edge for national issues since the question was first asked in a Times Mirror poll in 1994.

A cascade of Republican misfortunes, including a string of ethics scandals and escalating violence in Iraq, has set the stage for a Democratic resurgence. Only an event as dramatic as the capture of Osama bin Laden or a terrorist attack could reverse the trend toward Democrats, analysts say.

"Nobody's listening to the rhetoric anymore," says political scientist Gary Jacobson of the University of California, San Diego. "They're responding to the news."

GOP advantages dwindle

Democrats need 15 new seats in the House and six in the Senate to claim a majority. Non-partisan analysts Stuart Rothenberg and Charles Cook estimate Democrats will gain at least 18 to 20 House seats and possibly more.

Taking over the Senate is a tougher proposition. Democrats are favored to pick up four Senate seats held by Republicans and are competitive in three more in border states: Virginia, Tennessee and Missouri.

Democrats are keeping an eye on a potential pickup in Arizona, Republicans on possibilities in New Jersey or Michigan.

This year, some traditional Republican advantages "aren't quite what they seemed," says political scientist John Pitney at Claremont McKenna College in Claremont, Calif. Among them:

*Money. Republicans have raised more money than Democrats overall, but Democrats are competitive, and some candidates are experiencing a late surge.

The RNC and the GOP House and Senate campaign committees had a combined $77.6 million in cash on hand as of Sept. 30, according to federal reports. The three Democratic committees reported $67.3 million on hand.

Democratic Party committees have invested at least $12.6 million to support Senate hopefuls Claire McCaskill in Missouri, Harold Ford Jr. in Tennessee and Jim Webb in Virginia.

Republican committees have spent $8.6 million in Missouri and Tennessee, including $1.8 million Monday for TV ads against McCaskill.

Brian Nick of the National Republican Senatorial Committee says the GOP may be on the defensive in those three conservative states, but he notes Democrats have been forced to spend heavily to defend seats in New Jersey, Maryland and Michigan -- three traditionally Democratic states.

"Those dollars aren't going against our incumbents or for our open seats," he says.

*Redistricting. Pitney, a former Republican congressional aide, says districts mapped after the 2000 Census to protect GOP incumbents are changing and in some cases becoming less Republican.

"We're seeing demographic shifts that are bringing formerly safe Republican seats into reach for the Democrats," he says.

Robert Lang, a demographer at Virginia Tech's Metropolitan Institute, says new, far-flung mobility patterns mean the population and politics of a congressional district can shift "over half a decade, what would seem like the blink of an eye."

Many inner suburbs become more Democratic as Republicans move to outer suburbs. That has helped put into play seats such as the one held by Rep. Deborah Pryce, R-Ohio, near Columbus.

*Economic news. Low unemployment, falling gas prices and a record-setting stock market typically would translate into warm feelings about the economy. But 55% of Americans rate the economy as only fair or poor, and 54% say it is getting worse.

In places where the economy is a top concern -- including Ohio, Michigan and Pennsylvania -- people are upset about lost jobs, slow-growing wages for many workers and overseas competition. Democrats lambaste their opponents for voting against hikes in the minimum wage, promising a raise if they win control.

*Turnout by conservative Christians. Leaders of conservative Christian groups, including the Family Research Council, have complained that the Republican officials their members helped elect haven't delivered on such issues as a constitutional amendment to ban gay marriage. So-called values voters also have been buffeted by the scandal involving Foley's lewd computer messages to former House pages.

Democrats in several states -- including Ohio, Colorado, North Carolina and Tennessee -- allude to Foley and other scandals in ads on Christian radio stations.

Melissa Deckman, a Christian-politics expert at Washington College in Easton, Md., says the party may convert some listeners and encourage others to stay home.

"The more likely situation is Christian conservatives are not going to go out and vote," she says.

Foley was the third GOP House member to resign this year amid scandal. A fourth, Ohio Rep. Bob Ney, pleaded guilty to corruption charges this month. A new problem arose last week when the FBI confirmed it was investigating whether Rep. Curt Weldon, R-Pa., used his position to help his lobbyist daughter get contracts. Two days later, the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee bought $1.6 million in TV time to run negative ads against him.

'Bogged down' in war

The war in Iraq is the single most powerful issue shaping the public's mood, the survey indicates, and attitudes toward the war have soured significantly. A record 35% say the war is going "very badly" for the United States. The number that says insurgents are winning the war has more than doubled since February, to 21%.

Now, 58% of those polled say the invasion of Iraq was a mistake. Of those with that view, more than three of four are supporting the Democrat for Congress.

"Foreign policy, whether it's Iraq or in general, has become a strong issue for the Democrats, and Republicans are running away from it," New York Sen. Charles Schumer, the Democrats' Senate campaign chief, said in an interview.

Former GOP House majority leader Dick Armey says small-government conservatives don't believe the United States can create a democracy in Iraq and have become convinced the war was unnecessary. "We've gotten ourselves bogged down in a mess we can't get out of," he says.

In the survey, one-third of conservatives called the invasion a mistake, as did two-thirds of moderates and more than 8 of 10 liberals.

Some Republican candidates closely aligned with President Bush have edged away from his "stay the course" message. Virginia Sen. George Allen, facing a stiff challenge from former Navy secretary Jim Webb, has begun talking in the past week about "adapting" and "adjusting" the U.S. approach. Rep. Christopher Shays, R-Conn., for years a staunch war supporter, said this month he is "losing faith" in how it's being fought.

Playing the fear card

Democrats call those shifts too little, too late. "Changing direction in Iraq starts with changing the people we send to Washington," Shays' challenger, Diane Farrell, said Saturday in the Democratic response to Bush's radio address.

Democrats, who since the Vietnam War have battled voter perceptions that they are soft on defense, are finding a more receptive audience for the argument that they could do a better job of protecting America and conducting its foreign policy. In the poll, 52% say the Iraq war has made the USA less safe from terrorism.

Nonetheless, Republicans continue to view the issue of terrorism as their strongest asset -- both to persuade independent-minded voters and to energize core supporters. After circulating it in an e-mail to millions of supporters, the RNC broadcast an ad Sunday and Monday that showed bin Laden and other al-Qaeda leaders making threats against Americans and then the orange fireball of an explosion. The only sound: the ticking of a bomb's timer. "These are the stakes," the ad concludes, stark white words on a black screen.

Those words echo an infamous commercial President Lyndon Johnson used against Republican Barry Goldwater in 1964. Then, a girl counting daisy petals gave way to a missile countdown and a mushroom cloud. "These are the stakes," LBJ declared.

Phil Singer of the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee says the new GOP ad is a reminder that, five years after the 9/11 attacks, the Bush administration still hasn't caught bin Laden.

'Intensity of feeling' a factor

Though congressional elections customarily turn on local issues, voters by nearly 20 percentage points say national issues will make the biggest difference in their vote.

Bush, whose job approval rating remained at 37%, could be a liability for candidates. By 41%-27%, those surveyed say they are more likely to vote for a candidate who opposes the president than one who supports him.

The RNC has built a get-out-the-vote machine renowned for its sophisticated technology and targeting of potential supporters. Democrats have long relied on a combination of efforts -- by labor unions, interest groups, state parties and national committees -- that failed to match the GOP operation in the last three elections.

This year, analysts say the underlying landscape favors Democrats.

"The Republicans' turnout operation is better," says Curtis Gans, director of the non-partisan Center for the Study of the American Electorate. "But the intensity of feeling is on the Democratic side. The issue climate is on the Democratic side."

Some groups are trying to harness that intensity. The AFL-CIO is spending a record $40 million to contact union members and encourage them to vote. MoveOn.org is running a Web-based phone bank that matches tens of thousands of volunteers with Democratic-leaning voters in three Senate races and 50 House contests.

Eli Pariser, director of MoveOn's political arm, says the project targets people who voted in the 2004 presidential race but not in the 2002 congressional elections. ;

</file>

<file= AmE06_A07>

Europe's top trade official this week will address a growing rift between European countries where companies have found ways to reap advantages from globalization, and those that continue to bleed jobs to low-cost centers in Asia. 

In a report to be issued Wednesday, Peter Mandelson, the EU trade commissioner, will raise questions about whether importers of inexpensive goods should be considered greater drivers of Europe's future prosperity than manufacturing sectors in some nations that have remained uncompetitive amid the inflow of low-cost products. The document, presented in the form of 30 questions about possible reforms to EU trade rules, could help large European retailers like Hennes & Mauritz and sports shoe brands with global supply chains to hang on to their competitive advantages. The report could also lead to curbs on the ability of producers in Southern Europe to initiate trade disputes with more competitive exporters like China and Vietnam. 

"There have been far-reaching changes in the global economy and in the structure of the EU economy," according to a draft of the report, obtained Monday by the International Herald Tribune. 

"The challenge is to consider whether EU rules take sufficient account of the reality of outsourcing production by European businesses," the document, "Global Europe," said. 

Mandelson, an avowed free-trader, has been growing increasingly frustrated by a standoff between protectionist-minded businesses and politicians in Continental Europe and free-traders in Northern Europe over imports of inexpensive goods, particularly from Asia. 

Last year he was strongly criticized by retailers in Northern Europe after he imposed restrictions on Chinese imports of bras and sweaters destined for the likes of H&M that were instead stalled and piled up at ports around Europe. 

This year, Mandelson again mediated a fight between the factions after shoemakers in Southern Europe called for steep duties on imports of leather footwear from China and Vietnam. Big sportswear brands like Adidas and Puma strongly opposed the duties, saying they amounted to protectionism and would mean higher prices for European consumers. 

In the shoes case, Mandelson trod a middle path by imposing a series of ascending duties on Chinese and Vietnamese footwear. But he is seeking to avoid a repetition in future cases that could concern low-cost imports of crucial products like steel and furniture from countries including China and Vietnam. 

"Mandelson recognizes that cheap industrial inputs in particular are needed from China and the Far East," said Laurent Ruessmann, a trade specialist in the Brussels office of the law firm Sidley Austin. 

Mandelson "would like liberalization of the trade rules to make the blockage of these and other imports from these countries less automatic," Ruessmann said. 

To make the EU's trade rules more workable, Mandelson plans to put forth his questions for public comment through March 15, 2007. EU member governments would have to agree on answers before rewriting any of the current rules. 

The questions raised by Mandelson and the answers from industry, governments and trade experts could eventually give EU officials power to: 

Attach "greater weight to the interest of companies which have moved some part of their production out of the EU." Such a rebalancing of the rules could give officials broader leeway to dismiss complaints by European producers that have kept production within the EU. 

Require less competitive EU companies to present restructuring plans before they benefit from protective tariffs. Phase in tariffs - rather than impose them at their highest levels - in order to give retailers and businesses relying on imports more time to adapt. 

Impose anti-dumping duties - which normally last for five years - for shorter periods of time. Some categories of products could be entirely exempted from duties. 

The proposals are likely to be seen among European countries whose manufacturing sectors have not kept up with the competitive forces of globalization as a reward to companies that have sent jobs offshore and put traditional industries out of business. 

In the past, countries in Southern Europe, like Italy, where small manufacturers of textiles, shoes and furniture say they are fighting for their lives against Asian producers, have complained loudly that imports from less-expensive countries should be slowed down, rather than sped up. 

Larger European manufacturers of chemicals and steel could also face fewer protections from cheap Asian imports, and they too could wage a determined lobbying campaign against the suggestions. 

Rene van Sloten, an executive director with the European Chemical Industry Council, which includes manufacturers like BASF of Germany and the British-Dutch company, Unilever, said his members "regard with concern" the possible paring back of trade defense measures. Chemical companies usually litigate six to eight cases against Chinese exporters at any time, van Sloten said, and would lobby over coming months to keep the current EU trade defense measures intact. 

According to a survey released Monday by the German Marshall Fund, half of European respondents in a said that they believed that freer trade costs more jobs than it creates. 

The survey also found that China was viewed as particularly threatening. Fifty-nine percent of Americans and Europeans saw a threat from competition from low-cost Chinese products and from U.S. and European businesses relocating to China. 

Seventy percent of French, 67 percent of Polish, 66 percent of Italian and 65 percent of Slovak respondents expressed fears over Chinese economic strength. 

But according to Robert MacLean, a specialist in trade at the Brussels office of the law firm Crowell & Moring, some of Mandelson's questions probably will result in changes, since EU enlargement in 2004 has brought on board many more countries with a more freemarket outlook. 

"The influence of more protectionist forces in France, Italy and Spain is waning with the growth of the union to 25 countries," said MacLean. Mandelson will "face some ferocious opposition but the chances of his getting a package through are pretty high," MacLean said.;

A Polish nurse is running for Parliament in Iceland. A British labor union is establishing a special section for Polish immigrants. The Catholic Church in Ireland is going through a revival as Poles flock to Sunday services. New Polish-language newspapers are flourishing in Britain and Belgium, France and Sweden, Ireland and Germany, catering to Polish craftsmen, engineers, teachers, nurses, plumbers, architects, maids and drivers. These newspapers are the lifeblood for newcomers seeking to find cheap housing ferret out Polish food shops, and meet teachers to learn their new language. This is the "second" Poland, a diaspora of 800,000 Poles estimated by officials here to have left the country since it joined the European Union in May 2004. The exodus is believed to be one of the single biggest migrations by Europeans since the 1950s, when a wave of Irish crossed the Atlantic to escape poverty. 

But in Poland, this incredible movement of people has created a labor shortage so severe that Warsaw may not be able to spend the money that is due to begin arriving from the European Union for projects like improving roads and the water supply. The reason? A lack of manpower. 

"The money is there but so is the problem," said Bartlomiej Sosna, a construction analyst at the consultant group PMR in Krakow. "Now that we are in the EU, we have a fantastic opportunity to improve our infrastructure because we are due to receive billions of euros starting in 2007. But how?" 

The Polish Transport Ministry, for example, has already allocated 30 billion, or $38 billion, to be spent from 2007 to 2013 on a road and motorway construction program, some of it financed by EU funds, which will start flowing in January. 

"We do not have enough workers to build the roads," Sosna said. "If we don't take up the EU funds over a certain period of time, we will have to return them to Brussels. Do you know what this means? There will be a delay in the modernization of our country. And that would have negative repercussions for investment." Given the unemployment rate in Poland of 15.2 percent, one of the highest in the EU, it is puzzling why there is a labor shortage in the first place. But as hard as employers advertise, they cannot find enough workers in the construction, engineering and medical fields. "In some cases, the construction industry cannot offer tenders because they have not yet found enough workers," said Marcin Kulinicz, an immigration expert at the Labor Ministry. "But consider these statistics: Last summer, 61,700 bricklayers were registered as unemployed," he said, out of 100,000 construction workers on the jobless list. "So on the one hand, the industry says it does not have workers. On the other hand, 100,000 say they have qualifications as construction workers." 

Clearly, the Labor Ministry says, many of the construction workers have quit Poland to work abroad, lured by higher wages yet they register as unemployed back home in order to remain in the state health insurance system and receive other benefits. 

President Lech Kaczynski bemoaned this fact, and the costs to Warsaw, during his recent state visit to Britain. He criticized Poles for drawing unemployment benefits back home while enjoying good wages outside their country. 

To be sure, there is genuine unemployment in Poland, especially in eastern areas suffering from a depressed economy. But in much of the country, the economy is booming. 

With the economy expected to grow by 5 percent this year, according to the Economics Ministry, and the baby-boom generation of the early 1980s now in the labor market, there should be ample work, and workers to do the jobs. 

But Krystyna Iglicka, a migration expert and sociologist at the Center for International Relations in Warsaw, says Poland's education system failed during the 1990s to train enough skilled workers, including engineers and craftsmen. "The trendy professions were marketing and services, not focusing on vocational or technical skills," Iglicka said. "Vocational and technical schools were closed, teachers were made redundant. We are now paying the price. There is a shortage of skilled people in their twenties." So critical is the shortage of welders and shipbuilders for Poland's shipping industry that Poland and Germany are close to an accord to allow skilled ship workers from northern German ports who are unemployed to go across to Poland to work. 

The government is also granting work permits to skilled and unskilled laborers from its eastern neighbors in the hope of wooing Ukrainians and Belarussians to Poland, where wages are two or three times higher than at home. 

German companies here are adopting the same course. Hochtief, a large German construction company that has offices in Poland, says that hiring workers from Ukraine and Belarus "is one of the solutions we are pursuing." Last year, however, only 2,697 Ukrainians and 610 Belarussians took up the offer of work permits, although the Polish authorities issued a total of 10,304 such permits to foreigners. Migration experts say the low number is hardly surprising. Iglicka, for one, called the work permit system a "fiasco." 

"Polish labor costs are too high," he said, "so Ukrainians prefer to go south to Spain and Portugal. Employers here say it is now not worth their while to hire on the official labor market. Some resort to the black economy to employ Ukrainians, or Poles for that matter." The labor shortage is exacerbated by status issues. A booming economy has created a new middle class that is seeking domestic help. But many Polish women would rather work abroad than serve other Poles. 

"Some jobs are not being taken up by Poles because they are not considered decent," Iglicka said. "It's almost a shame to do these jobs. Maybe it has something to do with the past, under communism, when there were no servants, we were all deemed equal, and the working class was supposed to be the leading class. "Now people have money to hire domestic staff. But Polish women do not want to serve as maids. They would rather be a maid outside Poland, and let Ukrainian and Belarussian women come across to do those jobs.";

</file>

<file= AmE06_A08>

We're going to need grace. We are going to need a great outbreak of grace to navigate the next difficult months.
 
TD 
 

America is turning against a war it supported, for the essential reason that no one is able to promise a believable path to a successful outcome, and Americans are a practical people. It is not true that Americans are historical romantics. They are patriots who, once committed, commit on all levels, including emotionally. But they don't wake up in the morning looking for new flags to follow over old cliffs. They want to pay the mortgage, protect their children, and try to be better parents in a jittery time. They are not isolationist. They want to help where they can, and feel called to support the poor and the sick wherever they are. They are also, still, American exceptionalists, meaning they believe the creation of America--the long journey across the sea, the genius cluster that invented the republic, the historic codifying of freedom--was providential, and good news not only for us but the world. "And the glow from that fire can truly light the world."
 
Much has been strained. We were all concussed by 9/11--we reeled--and came down where we came down. For the administration, extreme events prompted radical thinking. American exceptionalism was yesterday. They would be universalists, their operating style at once dreamy and aggressive: All men want the same thing, and we're giving it to them whether they want it or not. Now the dreamers hope to be saved by men--James Baker, Vernon Jordan--they once dismissed as cynics. And the two truest statements on Iraq are, still, Colin Powell's "You break it, you own it" and Pat Buchanan's "A constitution doesn't make a country, a country makes a constitution." Iraq has a constitution but not a country.
 
When history runs hot, bitterness bubbles. Democrats who should be feeling happy are, from what I've observed in New York and Washington, not. The closest they come to joy is a more energetic smugness. Republicans are fighting among themselves--or, rather, grumbling. They haven't, amazingly, broken out in war, and if they did, no one would be debating if it were a civil war. It would be like Iraq, like a dropped pane of glass that is jagged, shattered, dangerous.
 
We will need grace to get through this time: through the discussion of the Baker-Hamilton report, through debate on the war, through a harmonious transfer of legislative power in January, through the beginning of the post-Bush era.
 
People often speak of an absence of civility in Washington, but that's not quite the problem. Faking civility is a primary operating style: "My esteemed colleague."
 
What is needed is grace--sensitivity, mercy, generosity of spirit, a courtesy so deep it amounts to beauty. We will have to summon it. And the dreadful thing is you can't really fake it.
 
A very small theory, but my latest, is that many politicians and journalists lack a certain public grace because they spent their formative years in the American institution most likely to encourage base assumptions and coldness toward the foe. Yes, boarding school, and tony private schools in general. The last people with grace in America are poor Christians and religiously educated people of the middle class. The rich gave it up as an affectation long ago. Too bad, since they stayed in power.
 
The latest example of a lack of grace in Washington is the exchange between Jim Webb and President Bush at a White House Christmas party. Mr. Webb did not want to pose with the president and so didn't join the picture line. Fair enough, everyone feels silly on a picture line. Mr. Bush approached him later and asked after his son, a Marine. Mr. Webb said he'd like his son back from Iraq. Mr. Bush then, according to the Washington Post, said: "That's not what I asked you. How's your son?" Mr. Webb replied that's between him and his son.
 
For this Mr. Webb has been roundly criticized. And on reading the exchange I thought it had the sound of the rattling little aggressions of our day, but not on Mr. Webb's side. Imagine Lincoln saying, in such circumstances, "That's not what I asked you." Or JFK. Or Gerald Ford!
 
"That's not what I asked you" is a sentence straight from cable TV, from which many Americans are acquiring an attitude toward public and even private presentation.
 
Our interviewers and anchors have been taught, or learned, that they must show who's in charge, who's demanding answers, who's uncompromising in his search for truth. But of course they're not in search of truth; they're on a search for dominance.
 
Interviewers now always, as you have noticed, interrupt the person they're interviewing. Yes, they are trying to show who's in control of this conversation, and yes, they're trying to catch the interviewee off guard in hope of making news. They are attempting to keep trained and practiced politicians from launching unfruitful filibusters and boring everyone.
 
But interviewers also interrupt their subjects because they don't want the camera on the subject. They want the camera on themselves. They interrupt to keep the camera where it belongs. If they don't, the camera will stay on the interviewee and not the journalist, which will not help the journalist rise. They know their bosses, after all. They do not want the boss to say, "What an enlightening interview, who did it?" They want him to say, "You looked great, you were all over that guy, you grilled him!"
 
The Dominance of the Face leads to the inevitability of the interruption:
 
"Why did you vote 'no'?"
 
"I felt--"
 
"But why'd you do it?"
 
"Well, the implications of the question, and the merits of the arguments seemed--"
 
"That's not what I asked you!"
 
Because of this style, no one in America has been allowed to finish a sentence in the past 10 years. And it is not confined to cable but has spread to the networks, to government, and is starting to affect regular people, encouraging in them a conversational style that is not friendly or graceful, but depositional.
 
This has not contributed to the presence of grace in our public life. And too bad, because right now and for the next few months we'll need grace more than ever.; 

The restructuring of Volkswagen AG, Europe's largest auto maker, is increasingly in jeopardy as top executive Wolfgang Bernhard is poised to leave the company over a planned management shake-up backed by the company's largest shareholder, chairman Ferdinand Piech.
 
The move by Mr. Bernhard, an outspoken member of Volkswagen's management board with responsibility for the company's core VW brand, is the latest sign of high-level friction at Volkswagen following the resignation last month of its CEO, Bernd Pischetsrieder.
 
Volkswagen's supervisory board, the German equivalent of a U.S. board of directors, will meet next month to approve a reorganization of Volkswagen's management board, the group that oversees the company's day-to-day operations. That move will all but surely signal the end of Mr. Bernhard's two-year tenure at the company, according to people familiar with the matter.
 
As part of the planned reorganization, Volkswagen's board of directors has offered Mr. Bernhard a new company-wide post overseeing production. But people familiar with the matter said Mr. Bernhard has spurned the offer, arguing that it violates the terms of his contract, which runs until 2010.
 
Mr. Bernhard, 46 years old, has been the object of intense speculation in recent weeks within the auto industry and among Volkswagen investors, many of whom view him as critical to the company's attempts to return the company to its former levels of profitability.
 
Investor confidence in Mr. Bernhard runs so high that Volkswagen's market value rose nearly $1.25 billion the day in October 2004 that Mr. Pischetsrieder said he had recruited the former Chrysler executive to the company.
 
Since then, Mr. Bernhard has played the bad cop in Mr. Pischetsrieder's effort to steer the VW brand back to its roots as a maker of affordable cars after a troubled bid to move upscale in the late 1990s and early 2000s under Mr. Piech, then the company's CEO.
 
It was Mr. Bernhard who this past summer cajoled Volkswagen's powerful German union to accept a reduction in wages of roughly 20% for some workers at its Wolfsburg, Germany, plant by threatening to shift production of a planned sport-utility vehicle outside Germany. He prodded the union earlier this year to agree to an extension of working hours at Volkswagen's six traditional Western German factories without a pay increase.
 
Mr. Bernhard was also the driving force behind the company's decision last year to pull the $68,000 VW Phaeton sedan out of the U.S. market following disappointing sales there, a move that deeply rankled Mr. Piech, who championed the Phaeton's development when he was CEO between 1993 and 2002.
 
In recent months, Mr. Piech has seen his influence at Volkswagen grow as a result of the decision last year by Porsche AG to spend more than 3 billion euros ($3.94 billion) to become Volkswagen's largest shareholder.
 
The sports-car maker, which has a 27.5% stake in Volkswagen, was founded by Mr. Piech's grandfather, Ferdinand Porsche. Mr. Piech himself is a member of Porsche's board of directors, a dual role that has made some Volkswagen investors uneasy and which last year helped spark a power struggle between Mr. Piech and rival Volkswagen directors eager to curb his influence.
 
The latest dispute at Volkswagen centers on how the company will be organized in the wake of Mr. Pischetsrieder's departure, and what role Mr. Bernhard will play at the company. In recent weeks, people familiar with the matter said, Mr. Bernhard has traveled around Germany to meet with members of Volkswagen's supervisory board individually.
 
He has tried to persuade them -- unsuccessfully -- to reconsider a plan backed by Mr. Piech and top executives from Porsche that would reorganize Volkswagen's management board along lines similar to those at Porsche. At Porsche, individual management-board members are responsible for specific functions, such as overseeing company-wide production, research and development, and sales and marketing.
 
Although some Volkswagen board members have expressed sympathy for Mr. Bernhard's views, efforts to resolve the impasse have made little progress, with several board members telling Mr. Bernhard that the balance of power on the company's board has shifted decisively in recent weeks to Porsche and Mr. Piech as a result of the sports-car maker's continued purchasing of Volkswagen shares.
 
"It's fairly clear he won't stay," a person familiar with Mr. Bernhard's thinking said. "He's said 'if my job is changed, I've got to leave.'"
 
Mr. Pischetsrieder did away with Mr. Piech's corporate structure after succeeding him in 2002. At present, most Volkswagen workers with expertise in an area are assigned to either of the company's car divisions, VW and its Audi AG unit, reporting along brand lines rather than functional lines.
 
Porsche officials declined to comment. Mr. Piech couldn't be reached to comment. But people familiar with their thinking said they have argued that the new management structure will help the company cut costs by promoting more cooperation between its VW and Audi brands on new models and engines. A spokeswoman for Volkswagen said Mr. Bernhard wasn't available to comment, and that the company wouldn't comment on "speculation" about a possible new management structure.
 
It isn't immediately clear what Mr. Bernhard will do once he leaves Volkswagen.
 
Debates over how best to organize car companies are as old as the industry itself. But the matter is especially sensitive at Volkswagen because of concerns among investors that Mr. Piech is attempting to reassert influence over the company's day-to-day management.
 
To succeed Mr. Pischetsrieder, who formally steps down Sunday, the company has chosen the current head of the company's Audi unit, Martin Winterkorn. Mr. Winterkorn's selection has drawn scrutiny from investors partly because of his close relationship with Mr. Piech and because of Mr. Winterkorn's role in helping to develop the Phaeton as a top aide to Mr. Piech in the late 1990s and early 2000s.;

</file>

<file= AmE06_A09>

Black fans were on one side of the stadium, white fans on the other. Off-duty police officers were in the stands, school detectives on the sidelines.

But the worst never happened 40 years ago when black and white high school football teams played each other for the first time in Georgia.

Raymond "Tweet" Williams was the head coach of Turner High, one of seven all-black city schools allowed to join the previously segregated Georgia High School Association in 1966.

"It let people know we could get along," Williams said. "There were people in the North that didn't believe we could do that. It brought about a mutual understanding that people are people."

The impact of the GHSA's legal and cultural shift touched all societal edges and set in motion the landscape for today's high school athletics.

Mainstream media for the first time began recognizing the exploits of the state's black high school athletes. Major colleges wanted to recruit players from local black schools. Head coaching opportunities expanded for blacks in metro Atlanta. 

Before 1966, black high school teams in Atlanta were often presumed by many whites as weaker and poorly coached.

Willie Hunter, an assistant coach in 1966 at Atlanta's Carver High and later a longtime head coach in city schools, said that even some African-Americans doubted the black coaches.

"It broke down a lot of myths," Hunter said. "People realized that blacks could coach. We realized that one group was not superior to the other."

Atlanta schools were progressive in integrating the head coaching positions. In 1968, Ted Sparks was named head coach at Southwest High, making him the first African-American coach at a predominantly white school.

"It was a frightening experience, of course," Sparks said. "I wondered what are the feelings of the parents, the kids themselves. Are they going to accept me? I think ultimately I got their respect."

Black coaches spread

That's not to say racial tensions between white coaches and black players, and vice-versa, didn't boil over many times in the coming years around the state.

Sparks' "Remember the Titans" adventure didn't last long, either. Within three years, the upper middle-class Southwest school district was virtually all-black, not as a response to Sparks but to integration in general.

In 1973, when Southwest won the Class AA title, it was a first for a black coach or an all-black team in the GHSA.

Seven African-American coaches have won GHSA state titles since then, six with virtually all-black teams.

Today, 41 of 96 head coaches in the larger metro Atlanta counties --- Cobb, Gwinnett, Fulton, Clayton and DeKalb --- are African-American.

But only three are at schools where there are more whites than blacks --- Centennial High, Shiloh and Lakeside. In rural Georgia, African-American head coaches are rare, even at predominantly black schools.

"I think we're kidding ourselves if we think that all the racial issues have been solved," said Ralph Swearngin, executive director of the Georgia High School Association. "I think what we do find is that it brought communities together. We were cheering for Bulldogs or whoever it was, whether the players were black or white."

Media coverage for blacks and their schools changed dramatically as well. Just a few years before, future basketball hall of famer and high school quarterback Walt Frazier passed through Atlanta's Howard High virtually unnoticed in major newspapers. 

"[Many] didn't get the publicity that would've propelled them into the Northern newspapers and maybe the larger schools," said former Fort Valley State College coach Stan Lomax, who was at powerful Risley of Brunswick when the high school organizations merged.

'New world' opens

In 1966, The Atlanta Journal and The Atlanta Constitution began covering the black high school sports for the first time. Carver tight end Roy Stanley and Archer guard Larry Brown were the newspapers' first black all-state players in 1966.

"You had a whole new world opening up to us," Stanley said. "Most of the blacks in this area went to the historically black colleges and universities. [Now] we were able to go to the teams that we were seeing on TV --- the Michigan States, the Notre Dames."

They were given chances like the one enjoyed by Jonathan Dwyer, the Kell High running back who set the Cobb County career rushing record this season. Dwyer will play at Georiga Tech, one of a slew of college suitors who coveted him.

One of seven African-American starters on his high school team, Dwyer says he has an appreciation for what those before him endured.

"In today's world, it's about character, and back then, it was more about color and race," Dwyer said. "Everybody gets along real well now."

Those who remember the 1960s believe it's important that today's coaches and players are mindful of how far high school sports in Georgia have come.

"Kids think that the schools always played against each other," Hunter said. "They don't know what we had to withstand. The whites didn't want to integrate."

GHSA in vanguard

Four years before full integration in Georgia high schools, or before Georgia Tech or Georgia fielded their first African-American college players, high school football in Georgia had entered the modern era.

The all-white North Fulton team beat all-black Murphy in the first historic game at old Cheney Stadium. Black schools won 23 of the next 28.

But more significant, the apprehension that accompanied the first game faded with each new game. 

Wallace Davis, who retired in 2004 after 29 seasons as head coach of Carver in Columbus, was a star player in the all-black Georgia Interscholastic Association before integration and was an assistant coach in the first game between blacks and whites in Columbus in 1968.

"If it hadn't been for high school football, integration would've been a big failure," Davis said. "People forgot all about black and white when it came down to winning. It was the greatest thing that could've happened for white and black relations."

It was something that would prompt Dwyer to say: "On the field, we're like brothers."

Williams, who left high school coaching in 1971, was Turner's coach for 15 years before the school competed against whites. Even now he can be overwhelmed by the effects of a change 40 years ago.

"When you see how these kids are today, the camaraderie they have, there was a time when I never thought I'd live to see that sort of thing," he said.; 
They're the architectural equivalent of swinging '60s bachelors --- funky, modern buildings that evoke the Space Age, cocktail shakers and JFK. 

But many of them are having a hard time surviving to middle age.

In metro Atlanta and around the state, modernist buildings erected from the 1950s to the 1970s --- from featureless slab skyscrapers to wacky cylindrical bank branches --- are quickly succumbing to the wrecking ball.

The demise of the architecturally cool, the curious and the offbeat is driven by several factors, say a small group of architects and preservationists. Among them: Atlanta's condo craze and the hunger for prime real estate it creates, especially in Midtown and downtown, and decay (many of the structures are approaching 50).

Several choice modernist examples already have been lost, and others have grim futures. The next to go will be one of Atlanta's largest examples, the 615 Peachtree building at North Avenue and Peachtree Street --- a neighbor, ironically, to Atlanta's best example of preservation, the Fox Theatre.

Cousins Properties, the Cobb County developer, already has begun demolishing the 1959 tower, most recently a local office for Wachovia Corp. Cousins plans to replace 615 with --- not surprisingly --- a 30-story tower of newfangled condominium units and other buildings. The complex will be named Fox Plaza.

Many locals, including downtown advocates eager to have new neighbors, see 615's clearing as progress. But, the Fox aside, metro Atlanta has a spotty record of sparing notable buildings, and modernist fans worry the city may someday miss its curious, modern history.

"The public takes these resources for granted," said Tom Little, a local architect and president of DOCOMOMO Georgia, the local branch of an international group committed to saving modern buildings. (The group takes its name from the words documentation, conservation and modern movement.) "We're quickly losing an era of architecture in Atlanta."

Already victims to the bulldozer or marked for destruction:

* Atlanta's Alcoa Building, which the aluminum concern built on Peachtree Street in 1957. "It used cast aluminum screens and aluminum components to show the highest goals of what Alcoa was about," Little said. It was demolished two years ago for the expansion of The Temple, a synagogue next door.

* Midtown's Atlanta Cabana Hotel, a Miami-style lodge where Martin Luther King Jr. and Harry Belafonte were once refused service. It was built in 1960 and torn down in 2002 to make way for condos.

* The Atlanta Constitution building, which the newspaper opened on Alabama Street downtown in 1948. The building, which is on DOCOMOMO's list of endangered structures, is owned by the state and has been slated for demolition to make way for transportation projects.

Losing these landmarks is a shame, said Steven Moffson, an architect and preservationist with the state Department of Natural Resources. The buildings are "hugely important, and part of the landscape of post-World War II America," he said.

'New' trumps 'dated'

Well, maybe, others say. The need for new developments and residents in the city outweighs any sentimentality about a style of architecture, said A.J. Robinson, president of Central Atlanta Progress, a downtown booster group.

In the case of 615 Peachtree, the building is inferior to newer structures, and erecting something new is better for the district, said Robinson, a former developer with architect and developer John Portman.

Robinson said most companies probably wouldn't want to lease suites in a dated building like 615, and condo consumers are even more finicky. Instead, he said, "we should celebrate the fact it's being replaced by new residences."

The demand for new high-rise homes around Atlanta has made developers target many aging structures that for years escaped most people's notice.

Last year, about 4,700 newly built condo units were sold or put under contract in intown neighborhoods, said David Haddow, president of real estate consulting firm Haddow & Co. That's a 74 percent increase over the 2,700 new units sold in the same area in 2004.

Developers like Novare Group, Wood Partners and Cousins are seeking land to build even more units, often at the expense of dated buildings. The Cabana Hotel, for example, was demolished for Novare's hip condo tower Spire.

Modernism is a fuzzy definition for a style of architecture and design that emerged in Europe in the 1920s and immigrated to America during and after World War II. Its migration was both figurative and literal.

Many of its disciples fled the Nazis for intellectual havens like Harvard University.

Glass boxes sprouted

Modernists wanted to celebrate a new age of technology, Moffson said, and they used what were then high-tech building materials like concrete, steel and glass, often in simple forms sheared of Old World ornamentation.

The style's popularity coincided with America's postwar building boom in the 1950s.

Fifty years ago, modernism --- and a branch of it known as the "International Style" because its simplicity was meant to translate into any culture --- was the preferred look for the modern corporate image, Moffson said.

The United Nations used the style for its New York headquarters in 1951, and companies like Seagram built their own modernist monoliths in capitals of commerce like New York and Chicago.

The concept and its variations endured through the 1960s and 1970s, and its boxy, featureless office floors even helped encourage the cube farm.

In Atlanta, modernist architects built the Atlanta Constitution and Equitable buildings downtown and the soon-to-be-demolished Peachtree Hills Apartments in Buckhead. Modernism also lent itself to a number of smaller, local shops, offices and bank branches.
Around Georgia, modernism cropped up in city halls, fire stations and other post-World War II public buildings, including the University of Georgia's Stegeman Coliseum in Athens.

</file>

<file= AmE06_A10>

AT least Arlen Specter is a man of his word. He kept his deal with the devil.
To forestall conservatives from challenging his accession as chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee when the current term began, the Pennsylvania Republican essentially promised to give all of President Bush's judicial nominees a hearing, regardless of how bad some were certain to be.
In fastidious maintenance of that pledge, Specter scraped the bottom of the barrel Tuesday and paraded before the committee the only two Bush nominees to be rated "not qualified" by the American Bar Association this year.
Perhaps if there was all the time in the world for a thorough Senate committee review of the nominees, it could be argued the panel could indulge itself. But that is not the case.
It was Specter himself who only Monday said of the rush to a pre- election recess: "I've never seen so much work left to do."
Pending bills subject to the jurisdiction of Specter's committee alone include legal procedure in terror suspect cases, terror surveillance and immigration reform.
But, lo and behold, amid this legislative whirlwind Specter found time to convene a meeting of the full committee to consider judicial nominees that the nation's major group of lawyers has concluded do not belong on the federal bench.
The unnecessary hearing was, for good reason, lightly attended by committee members. "We have a lot more issues facing America that are a lot more important," said Sen. Patrick Leahy, D-Vt., who sat through part of the show.
As afternoon moved toward evening, it became clear that one purpose of the hearing was to allow Republican members to beat up on the ABA for daring to buck even a couple of Bush nominees. This was a preoccupation of Sen. John Cornyn, R-Texas, in his loaded softballs.
Unfortunately, one of the nominees is for a vacancy on the 5th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals, which hears cases from Texas, Louisiana and Mississippi. That's the federal appeals circuit, according to the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund, with the highest percentage of minority residents.
So, naturally, Bush has nominated a lawyer with a career-long antipathy to such basic civil rights touchstones as the Voting Rights Act and single-member districts.
It's sort of a sick joke, but it's also perversely real. Bush wants this guy to have a lifetime seat on a court that remains an important gatekeeper in the world of civil rights litigation.
The superbly unsuited nominee is Michael B. Wallace, a politically well-connected Jackson, Miss., attorney.
He might be the only appeals circuit nominee who has received a unanimous "not qualified" rating from the ABA's standing committee on the federal judiciary. No one can recall another.
After two separate ABA inquiries into Wallace's nomination earlier this year, the bar committee came up with the same conclusion: Wallace, while of the "highest professional competence," lacks a judicial temperament and a commitment to equal justice.
Wallace's rating is hard to come by. Of the 90 Bushjudicial nominations that the ABA committee has rated in the current, 109th Congress, only Wallace received a unanimous "not qualified" rating. Twice - after he was nominated in February, and then when, because of procedural rules, he was nominated again earlier this month.
With the changing committee membership over the year, Leahy pointed out, 21 different members of the ABA panel have rated Wallace. "None found him to be qualified," Leahy said.
The ABA committee is not, as some Republicans seek to paint it, an ideologically driven panel. Almost half of Bush's nominees in this term have received a unanimous rating of "well qualified."
Only three other nominees have been rated as "not qualified" by what the committee calls a "substantial majority" (with a minority rating them qualified).
One of those is the other nominee considered by the Judiciary Committee on Tuesday, Vanessa L. Bryant, a state superior court judge in Connecticut whom Bush wants to serve as a U.S. district court judge in her state. After the ABA committee made its rating, the Connecticut Bar Association also found Bryant "not qualified," saying in a statement that she "does not possess the requisite judicial temperament."
Specter has been eloquent in opposing the Bush administration's policy regarding terror suspects.
"It is inexplicable to me how someone can seek to divest the federal courts of jurisdiction on constitutional issues - just inexplicable to me," Specter said Monday.
But almost equally inexplicable is wasting time in this legislative crunch on unworthy nominees.
The breakthrough, after months of negotiations, means that next week lawmakers could give President Bush what he called his "top legislative priority" ahead of the November elections. Republicans are counting on a strong showing on national security issues to prevent Democrats from gaining a majority of seats in Congress.
Bush, on the road in Florida, praised the agreement for preserving "the most potent tool we have in protecting America and foiling terrorist attacks, and that is the CIA program to question the world's most dangerous terrorists and to get their secrets."
Sen. John McCain, R-Ariz., and a Vietnam-era torture survivor who had bucked the White House along with Senate Armed Services Committee Chairman John Warner, R-Va., and Sen. Lindsey Graham, R- S.C., a former military lawyer, said the deal gives the president the tools he needs to fight the war on terror and "bring these evil people to justice."
"I also believe that it's consistent with the standards under the Detainee Treatment Act," McCain said, referring to the anti-torture law he pushed through Congress last year. "And there is no doubt that the integrity and letter and spirit of the Geneva Conventions have been preserved."
New tribunal system
If accepted by both houses of Congress, the agreement would create a new military court system to replace the one Bush set up after the Sept. 11, 2001, terror attacks.
The U.S. Supreme Court threw out Bush's military commissions plan in June, saying it violated U.S. law and the Geneva Conventions, the 1949 treaties that govern treatment of wartime detainees.
The agreement resolved the major sticking points between the White House and the senators. The senators persuaded the White House to leave intact U.S. obligations under the Geneva Conventions' Common Article 3, which bars "outrages upon personal dignity (and) humiliating and degrading treatment" of wartime detainees.
But the White House and CIA gained the clarifications they were seeking in U.S. law, which will spell out what abuses could be prosecuted in the United States as war crimes because they are considered "grave breaches" of the Geneva Conventions. In addition to torture, the U.S. War Crimes Act would now make it clear other violations of the treaties - such as cruel or inhuman treatment, rape, mutilation, maiming or intentionally causing serious bodily injury - would be considered felonies under U.S. law.
The two sides also agreed to protect classified information by allowing prosecutors to keep their evidence secret, unless they decide to use it at trial. If they use it, though, the accused must be allowed to see everything the jury is allowed to see.
House Republicans may fight this part of the agreement.
Rep. Duncan Hunter, R-Calif., who heads the House Armed Services Committee, said prosecutors should be able to use classified evidence without sharing it with the accused in some cases. Graham continues to insist the accused must have access to any evidence used against him if the new commission system is to pass the Supreme Court's test for providing a fair trial.
Some coercion allowed
National Security Adviser Stephen Hadley said the administration now sides with Graham on that point.
The agreement also calls for allowing the military commissions to consider evidence gained through relatively minor coercive questioning methods, if a military judge overseeing the trial finds the evidence is reliable and serves the interests of justice. Evidence gained through torture or through other interrogation methods that would amount to "cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment," as understood by U.S. courts interpreting the U.S. Constitution, would be barred from the trials.
Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist, R-Tenn., said the agreement will be circulated to other senators this weekend, with the hope of passing the legislation next week.
Sen. John Cornyn, R-Texas, who did not participate in the negotiations but was invited to participate in a press conference announcing the deal, urged Democrats to get onboard to pass the legislation now that Republicans have united.
"This issue is much more important than the next election," he said. "This is about the safety and security of the American people."
Only legal residents - or immigrants who entered the country illegally and then applied for residency - can enter the armed forces. And while the fast track to citizenship is a strong lure for some, it's not the main reason many Latino immigrants sign up, say military recruiters in the Rio Grande Valley.
"I'd put No. 1, the educational benefits," said U.S. Marine Gunnery Sgt. Levi Garcia, a Brownsville recruiter and himself an immigrant from Nicaragua. "No. 2, work experience, and three would be serving their country, or patriotism."
Citizenship benefits are a distant fourth, he said.
Kane agreed, rejecting the idea that immigrants join to become citizens.
"Immigrants who come into the military are doing it because of a strong sense of patriotism. They are embracing their adoptive country," he said. "When I hear people saying they are signing up to be citizens, it denigrates their service."
"They're there because they want to make a contribution. ... They want to give back to America."
Fast-track perk
Typical is the case of Delia Gutierrez, 18, an immigrant from San Luis Potosi state in Mexico. She said she didn't join the Marines for citizenship. She signed up out of gratitude to the United States.
But she'll also apply for citizenship, taking advantage of the fast-track perk.
Citizenship comes posthumously for some immigrants.
Since the 9/11 attacks, at least 80 immigrant troops have been declared U.S. citizens after being killed in Iraq or Afghanistan, U.S. officials say.
Julio Cisneros Alvarez, 22, a native of Reynosa, Mexico, had joined the Marine Corps and hoped that the U.S. government would help him pay for medical school.
But his plans were cut short in January 2005, a little more than a year after he enlisted. A machine gunner, he was killed when a rocket-propelled grenade hit his Humvee during a nighttime patrol in Iraq.
A month later, in a somber ceremony at the U.S. immigration offices in Harlingen, his mother accepted a certificate granting him U.S. citizenship.
"Julio went because he wanted to be a doctor," said his mother, Senobia "Marta" Alvarez, 40, a South Texas cantina owner.
He also wanted to fight terrorism, she said, so that his mother and his two brothers, Marcos and Santos, would have a secure future.
A 3-foot-tall poster of the slain Marine in his uniform is taped to a long mirror behind the bar at the family's cantina.
"Hopefully, this county will recognize the sacrifice he and all the others made over there - and that people never forget them," said Alvarez, as she wiped tears from her eyes.
`I'm here for your security'
Laws passed in 2003 and 2004 grant citizenship to immigrants killed in combat, give priority status to surviving spouses and children, and waive processing fees.
The provisions have allowed about 1,000 service members to become citizens while serving at overseas military bases in Iraq, Kuwait and Afghanistan, at U.S. Embassies, and even aboard warships.
The citizenship ceremonies are sometimes held close to the battlefield. In July, for instance, 69 active duty service members took the oath of allegiance at a military camp in Balad, Iraq.
Leaders of some Hispanic groups say immigrants' sacrifices in war aren't always acknowledged, especially by those pushing to seal the U.S.-Mexico border.
"How can we tell our young men and women to fight overseas to defend our nation ... when Congress is falling over itself to punish their families, neighbors and friends by deporting them?" said Brent Wilkes, director of the League of United Latin American Citizens in Washington.

</file>

<file= AmE06_A11>

Once, not so long ago, Europe saw itself as the Middle East's honest broker, poised between a hard-line United States and an equally intransigent Muslim world. At the same time Russia, once a regional superpower, was... nowhere. While the European Union played mediator in conflicts from Palestine to Iran, Russia contented itself with hawking a few weapons systems and tending its own post-Soviet backyard.

What a difference a couple of years can make. In the wake of Hamas's Palestinian election win and Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadine-jad's defiance over his country's uranium-enrichment program, Europe is edging ever closer to the tougher stance taken by the United States. Meanwhile, a newly confident Russia has stepped into Europe's shoes as middleman between East and West, reaching out to the region's untouchables--and making it clear that Moscow won't be taking orders from anyone.

Earlier this month, President Vladimir Putin outraged the United States and Israel by inviting the leaders of Hamas to Moscow for talks. "Hamas is in power--this is a fact" was Russian Defense Minister Sergei Ivanov's blunt message. "It came to power as a result of free democratic elections." Moscow has broken ranks with the West in Iran, too. Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said that Russia won't--for the time being, at least--back U.N. sanctions against Tehran, even as U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice complained that Iran is now "in open defiance of the international community." Russia insists instead that the way forward is to persuade Tehran to accept a scheme to enrich its uranium on Russian territory. "No one has the right to deny another country the right to safe atomic power," Russia's atomic-energy chief, Sergei Kiriyenko, recently told NEWSWEEK.

The new assertiveness, analysts say, is part and parcel of Russia's recent muscle-flexing in Eastern Europe. After a winter spent wielding energy as a political weapon against wayward former Soviet states such as Ukraine and Georgia, the Kremlin has now turned its sights to a broader forum. "First Russia went on a counterattack in the former Soviet Union," says analyst Dmitri Trenin of the Carnegie Moscow Center. "Now it is doing the same in the Middle East." Putin gave an important clue to Russia's thinking earlier this month when he described the Hamas victory as "an important setback for American efforts in the Middle East." The implication: America has no infallible monopoly on power and influence, and certainly not at Russia's expense.

For all the United States' and Israel's indignation at Russia's meddling, there's actually a chance that Moscow may succeed where the others have failed. "Unlike America, Russia is not bound up by legal objections to talking [with Hamas]," says Alexander Kalugin, Russia's special envoy to the Middle East, who met with senior Hamas representatives last week in Ramallah. And what Russia has to say to Hamas doesn't differ much in substance from the message propounded by the other members of the "quartet" of interested parties--the United States, the EU and the United Nations. "Their message will be consistent: that Israel has a right to exist, that previous Palestinian Authority agreements should be honored and that they should renounce violence," says one Western diplomat, speaking on condition of anonymity.

The main problem is that Russia didn't see fit to discuss its initiative with the others. "There was not a lot of advance consultation about the talks," admits the diplomat. For the Kremlin, it seems, the important point is to distance itself from the United States--and to emphasize that Russia is no longer a junior partner in Washington's foreign policy.

The risk is, of course, that Russia's strategy of talking to Hamas could backfire. After all, Russia dubs its own Chechen separatists "terrorists" and complains vociferously when the U.K. and United States offer political asylum to rebel leaders such as Ilyas Akhmadov, a self-styled "ambassador" of independent Chechnya. "If today Moscow talks to Hamas," warns Russia's Chief Rabbi Beryl Lazar, "tomorrow we'll hear demands for talks with [Chechen rebel Shamil] Basayev, the day after tomorrow for talks with Al Qaeda."

And Russia's self-appointed role as honest broker doesn't sit terribly well with its place as a major arms supplier, especially to Iran. Last month Rosvooruzheniye, Russia's giant state-owned arms-export company, announced that Tehran had agreed to spend $1 billion on 30 Tor-M1 air-defense missile systems, capable of protecting a target from up to 48 incoming planes or projectiles to a range of six kilometers. Iran also has a longstanding accord with Moscow for up to $7 billion in conventional arms, including MiG-29 fighters, assistance with Iran's small submarine fleet, BMP-3 armored personnel carriers and landing craft.

The bottom line? Moscow may be broadly cooperative in international efforts to get Iran to cease its uranium- enrichment program--but at the same time, it's providing Iran with the means to defend itself against a possible air raid like the Israeli strike that destroyed Saddam Hussein's French-built Osirak reactor in 1981. In that, Russia's "new" role looks more like that played in the past--less middleman than a check on Washington and the West.; 

The city of Busan, South Korea's largest port, feels like a room crammed with oversize furniture. Apartment buildings and hotels crowd into a narrow strip between steep hills and a deep harbor. There is no view of the water from the claustrophobic main street, even though it follows the harbor's edge, because the road is blocked on both sides by steel shipping containers in basic red, green and blue, stacked two or three high like children's blocks.

One's car is surrounded by tractor-trailers hauling containers, and occasionally traffic grinds to a halt as long railway trains creep across an intersection hauling--you guessed it--still more containers.

In Busan (population: 4.7 million), there's not much question about what rules trade: the Box, as they call it, is king. The city's livelihoods depend on the 24/7 conveyor belt that in 2004 handled 11.4 million TEUs--"twenty-foot equivalent units," the basic unit of measurement in the container trade--up from 2.3 million in 1990. That makes Busan the world's fifth largest port by volume, and earlier this year it opened a state-of-the-art terminal 52 kilometers to the west, hoping to siphon a majority of the container traffic away from the strained city center.

For its total devotion to the Box, Busan is an apt place to ponder the rise of container shipping, which celebrates its 50th anniversary this month, as a vital and increasingly controversial cornerstone of global commerce. With roughly 20 million containers moving around the world today, carrying as much as 95 percent of goods coming into America, containers have become the essential baggage compartment of modern life. Economist (and former NEWSWEEK writer) Marc Levinson, author of "The Box: How the Shipping Container Made the World Smaller and the Economy Bigger," argues that this simple innovation "made globalization possible."

Indeed, it is hard to imagine how world trade could have grown so fast--quintupling in the last two decades--without the "intermodal shipping container," to use the technical term. The invention of a standard-size steel box that can be easily moved from a truck to a ship to a railroad car, without ever passing through human hands, cut down on the work and vastly increased the speed of shipping. It represented an entirely new system, not just a new product. The dark side is that these steel containers are by definition black boxes, invisible to casual inspection, and the more of them authorities open for inspection, the more they undermine the smooth functioning of the system.

So containers have become a perfect vessel for the smuggling of just about anything, from counterfeit goods and currency to people and even nuclear weapons--a fear that underlay the recent furor over a Dubai company's bid to take over terminal operations at several U.S. ports. Security experts have warned repeatedly that a container carrying a "dirty" nuclear weapon would make the ultimate "poor man's missile," and nations the world over are now searching for new technology capable of searching every single box that crosses their borders. The Bush administration's Container Security Initiative aims to enlist the help of other countries in identifying suspicious containers in ports of origin before they're loaded onto ships bound for the United States. "A hidden revolution has been going on," says maritime-security expert Stephen Flynn. "And now we've become so dependent upon it that it's like the air we breathe. We don't notice it until it's not there. Then you notice it big time."

It's impossible to miss now. The recently busted nuclear smuggling network run by top Pakistani scientist A.Q. Khan shipped all of its goods inside containers, notes former U.S. State Department official David Asher. And there was the famous case, in early 2002, when Italian officials opened up a container being shipped from Egypt to Canada only to discover a man named Amid Farid Rizk, traveling with all the conveniences that a presumed terrorist could want: a laptop computer, a satellite phone--and several airport-security passes.

Ironically, anonymity was originally a key selling point. Back in the 1950s, when an American trucking magnate named Malcolm McLean first dreamed up the Box, ports were messy, chaotic places--far from today's smoothly geometrical container terminals. Stevedores used cranes to lift individual loads of all shapes, sizes and packagings out of ships, then placed them in dockside warehouses until they could be trucked away. It was usually impossible to calculate how long the process would take, or how many of the goods would be stolen along the way. McLean realized that standardized containers would increase efficiency, and thwart thieves. Crafting new containers was just a start. McLean built new ships and trucks specially designed to handle the boxes, launching the modern industry of business "logistics," a term that had previously been used exclusively by armies, says Levinson.

McLean's first container ship sailed in 1956, but the idea didn't begin to catch on for another decade. The impetus came from the Pentagon, which needed to speed the movement of war matriel to U.S. forces in Vietnam. Profits were impressive, but McLean realized that many of his containers were making the trip back to the United States empty. So he began scheduling stops in Japan, then the world's most rapidly expanding economy, where businessmen were exporting increasingly large numbers of transistor radios, calculators and cars to America.

As the container caught on, costs plummeted. In 1959, by Levinson's estimate, freight could make up as much as 25 percent of a product's cost. Today shipping costs are a neglible fraction of the total. In 2006 the cost of shipping a standard 40-foot box from China to the United States, complete with up to 32 tons of cargo, can run as low as $2,000. That "makes the postage stamp seem overpriced," notes Flynn.

By lowering shipping costs, McLean had neutralized the advantage of geographic proximity, and set the stage for Asia's "tiger" exporters, and later China's rapid rise as factory to the world. There were other trade-offs, too. As Levinson notes, container shipping "assisted the rapid economic growth of Korea while offering precious little to [landlocked] Paraguay."

Ports, once seamy, dangerous and vaguely romantic, became profoundly rational, even soulless places. As Japanese-style "just in time" manufacturing began to spread around the world, shippers began employing more and more advanced technology, and ever-bigger container ships, to deliver ever-larger shipments on increasingly exact time schedules. Today the global container-terminal business is dominated by shipping companies, and the two biggest hail from the two highest-volume container ports, Hong Kong and Singapore. "The container-terminal industry has globalized very rapidly," says Neil Davidson, research director for Drewry Shipping in London. "I think it's partly because certain operators made strategic decisions, and they happened to be Chinese-owned and Singaporean and Danish rather than American or German. It's partly historical accident, partly just a greater desire by other companies to come to the fore."

Most Americans haven't been paying much attention--a point dramatically borne out by Dubai Port World's decision to unload its newly acquired container operations in U.S. ports, after the public uproar against placing the facilities in Middle Eastern hands.;

</file>

<file= AmE06_A12>

Peter the Great built St. Petersburg on Russia's far northwestern edge as a strategic window on Europe. On his way to this year's G-8 summit in St. Petersburg, President Bush will stop off at his own strategic window on Europe: Stralsund. If you've been to Stralsund, the question might be, Why? The town, once in East Germany, has a population of about 60,000 and is famous for a local berry drink that tastes like flat, bitter orange soda. All that matters to the President, though, is that Stralsund was once represented in the Bundestag by Angela Merkel, who unseated Gerhard Schrder last fall to become Germany's first female Chancellor. Bush and Schrder barely spoke, but Bush and Merkel hit it off when she visited the White House in January, and the overnight Stralsund detour is indicative of the President's new stab at European diplomacy: find friends, even if the effort takes you to out-of-the-way places.
The President's image across Europe is so poor that in a recent poll on the Continent, a majority of respondents said the U.S. was more of a threat to world stability than China or Iran. When questioned about that poll at a news conference in Vienna last month, Bush snorted at what he considered an "absurd statement" and said, "For Europe, September 11 was a moment; for us, it was a change of thinking. I vowed to the American people I would do everything I could to defend our people, and will." The retort was part of the confident, nondefensive approach Bush took during 44 hours in Vienna and Budapest. "Let me talk about Guantnamo," he said early in one meeting, not waiting for his hosts to bring up the unpleasant subject of the military detention center. (It's a subject that, because of the Supreme Court ruling, is still likely to be a staple of the questions at his European press conferences this week.) The massive demonstrations that had been predicted in Austria did not materialize, and Bush was tickled when Austrian President Heinz Fischer slathered praise on the U.S., recounting the Marshall Plan's role in rebuilding his country after World War II and calling the poll's results "grotesque."
Bush occasionally got crabby on European trips early in his presidency; in 2002, after enduring days of anti-American demonstrations, he famously called NBC's David Gregory a preening "intercontinental" when Gregory asked French President Jacques Chirac a question in French. But Bush's advisers believe he has discovered a formula for dealing with the Continent that is working for him. The White House concentrates his visits and speeches on friendly countries and largely ignores the recalcitrant ones. "We're building relationships where there are relationships to build," said a White House official. That explains why the President spends so little time in France and Spain--the blue states of Europe--and so much in Poland, Lithuania and Slovakia, countries once behind the Iron Curtain where his odes to democracy are particularly resonant. Beyond just visiting, Bush has been pushing for the eastward expansion of NATO and the European Union, which would give the map of Europe more of a red-state look.
White House aides say that this is diplomacy pure and simple and that it would be wrong to give the President's approach a political cast. But advisers admit that Bush the healer and Bush the diplomat are the White House theme music for his final two years in office--out of necessity, because of the need to enlist Europe in pressuring Iran and North Korea and as part of an effort to burnish the President's legacy.
So he's trying to gain converts, one country at a time. In Vienna, First Lady Laura Bush toured the original megachurch, St. Stephen's Cathedral, built in the 1100s, and the President was jolly enough to tease a photographer about his tumbleweed-like hair. Austria was having a heat wave, but Bush patiently answered personal questions from students under hot lights and tapped along as the Vienna Boys' Choir offered up On the Beautiful Blue Danube. Afterward, one of the boys presented the President with a teddy bear. The boy was from Ohio. The President asked him how the Reds were doing. At least for a moment, Europe didn't seem so alien.
Up until a couple of weeks ago, George W. Bush's script to put the misery of 2005 behind him had seemed destined for a smooth rollout. Buoyed by the apparent success of the Iraqi elections, the President would score a quick confirmation victory with Supreme Court nominee Samuel Alito, follow it up with a soaring State of the Union address and then return to full campaign mode with a sweep around the country, talking about big issues like immigration and Medicare and throwing the spotlight on a resurgent economy. But the revelation that his Administration has been spying in this country without warrants--illegally, critics say--may have put a crimp in Bush's plan to climb back on top of the agenda as the new legislative session begins. "When Congress comes back," warns a top G.O.P. congressional aide, "domestic surveillance and privacy issues will be all over the front pages."
To which the President and his strategists seem to be saying, Bring it on. From practically the moment news of the domestic-surveillance program hit the front page of the New York Times, the White House decided its strategy would be to "overwhelm the skeptics, not back off, not change anything about the program and really home in very strongly on the fact that this is a legitimate part of presidential warmaking power," says an adviser. Bush launched a ferocious defense in his Dec. 17 weekly radio address, inviting in a network camera to capture the rare live delivery of the speech as he declared that the no-longer-secret surveillance program makes it "more likely that killers like these 9/11 hijackers will be identified and located in time." G.O.P. strategists argue that Democrats have little leeway to attack on the issue because it could make them look weak on national security and because some of their leaders were briefed about the the National Security Agency (NSA) no-warrant surveillance before it became public knowledge. Some key Democrats even defend it. Says California's Jane Harman, ranking Democrat on the House Intelligence Committee: "I believe the program is essential to U.S. national security and that its disclosure has damaged critical intelligence capabilities."
But the NSA operation--and particularly Bush's decision to bypass the generally amenable Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court for authorization--has drawn fire not only from liberal Democrats but also from some of the most conservative in Bush's party, in which government restraint is a fundamental precept. "There is a test of Republicans on this," says activist Grover Norquist, normally a White House ally. "The country will let you get away with this in the wake of 9/11, but that doesn't make it right." And even if Republicans are prepared to bless Bush's program, they know it theoretically would have to mean extending such sweeping Executive power to, say, a President Hillary Clinton.
The first test of the controversy's political resonance could come as early as next week, with the opening of Alito's confirmation hearings before the Senate Judiciary Committee, whose fiercely independent chairman, Republican Arlen Specter, has called the Administration's rationale for the no-warrant surveillance "a stretch." Opponents of Alito's nomination, who had planned to put the abortion issue on center stage, are quickly retooling their strategy. Says Patrick Leahy, the top Democrat on the Judiciary Committee: "I will be asking Judge Alito a lot of questions about checks and balances and what he can say that would convince us he would be willing to act as a check and a balance."
Alito's record could give his critics plenty of ammunition. The Third Circuit judge has long been an advocate of the unitary-executive concept, a constitutional interpretation that is a favorite of Bush's and Vice President Dick Cheney's, which argues that the President should have nearly total control of Executive Branch agencies and resist any incursion on that power by Congress. And in a 1984 memo recently released by the National Archives, Alito--at the time a lawyer with the Reagan Administration Justice Department--argued that government officials who order illegal domestic wiretaps can be immune from lawsuits. The case in question arose in 1970, when then Attorney General John Mitchell allowed the FBI to wiretap Vietnam War protesters suspected of plotting to kidnap National Security Adviser Henry Kissinger.
Administration officials concede that the controversy will inject a volatile new element into the confirmation debate but say Alito will resist getting drawn in. "It will form the basis for questions and possible senatorial grandstanding, and the hearing may be more hostile than it was with [recently confirmed Chief Justice John] Roberts," an official involved in the nomination tells TIME. "But like any nominee to the court, you're not going to see him predict any cases or make any commitments to the committee." As for that two-decade-old memo, it was a domestic matter that has "no nexus, no connection, no link" to the current debate, says Steve Schmidt, a White House aide helping shepherd Alito through the confirmation process.
The Alito nomination is not the only issue on which the Administration will have to confront the controversy. It will add to Bush's already difficult struggle to renew the most controversial provisions of the USA Patriot Act, which was passed after 9/11 and gave law enforcement broad new powers that have since unsettled some on both the left and the right. Congress last month disappointed the White House by giving the provisions only a five-week extension, setting a new expiration date of Feb. 3. And some kind of congressional investigation into the NSA spying program seems certain. Specter, for one, has promised hearings early in the year--a move, sources tell TIME, that the White House is hoping to head off by convincing the Senator to defer to the Intelligence Committee, whose hearings would be behind closed doors and classified. "They're going to lean on Specter very hard not to hold hearings," says a Republican official. Bush has warned that any public hearings on programs would simply tip off terrorists and invite them to adjust their tactics, and he says, "This is a war."

That's a theme Americans will hear again and again leading up to the State of the Union address, which officials say will position Bush as a "strong and decisive leader," prosecuting the war on terrorism as he reins in spending at home and spreads democracy around the world. "It's Bush as Churchill, Bush as Reagan and Goldwater and Bush as Woodrow Wilson," says a presidential adviser. But when civil liberties are involved, inviting historic comparisons can be a dangerous business. "This is an Administration," says Leahy, "that has tried to bypass courts and the legal procedures more than any since Richard Nixon."
He had deliberately diverged from the Middle East course set by his two predecessors when he hired an unabashedly pro-Israel staff. "I'm all for conferences," Bush said in a 2004 appearance with British Prime Minister Tony Blair, "just so long as the conferences produce something." George H.W. Bush and his Secretary of State James Baker were seen as heroes by some Palestinians; Bill Clinton made the quest for Middle East peace a centerpiece of his legacy project. Bush aides say the times were different then and the vaunted progress under Clinton turned out to be what one called "a false stability."
Does George W. Bush have dreams of presiding over a grand Middle East peace deal at Camp David or some other photogenic spot, like the Red Sea summit of his first term? Aides say he is content for now to take steps toward transforming the region in less obvious but, they believe, more fundamental and lasting ways. So Bush today is in the precarious position of putting his hopes in a region that has yielded only heartbreak.

</file>

<file= AmE06_A13>

In a country that is in the process of bidding a long farewell to its ageing revolutionaries, Mariela Castro brings an expectation of change along with an air of youthful passion. As the director of Cenesex (the National Sex Education Center) Ms. Castro is eager to consider where Cuba should go in a postrevolutionary era. 

"We have many contradictions in Cuba," says Castro, the daughter of Raul Castro, Cuba's de facto leader and brother of ailing President Fidel Castro. A Spanish doctor arrived in Cuba last week, reenergizing speculation about the health of the Cuban leader, who has not been seen in public since undergoing surgery in July. "We need to experiment and to test what really works, to make public ownership more effective, rather than simply adopting wholesale free- market reforms," Ms. Castro says. 

Leaders like Ms. Castro may indicate the extent to which a post- Castro Cuba may be willing to liberalize, both economically and socially. As Cuba's old-guard leadership fades, this new generation - made up primarily of the sons and daughters of those who fought in the 1959 Communist revolution - is perhaps more sympathetic to economic reforms and more-liberal social policies. 

Nevertheless, Cuba-watchers and experts have ruled out any dramatic lurch toward a liberal market economy that might undermine the island nation's heritage as the persistent holdout of traditional Communist policies. More relaxed social attitudes may also evolve gradually. 

Still, no one doubts that change is afoot. 

"The transition in Cuba has already taken place" and this new generation has a key role to play, says Richard Gott, a Latin American analyst and former foreign correspondent for the London- based The Guardian newspaper. "Carlos Lage will be the brains behind the new government. He, together with Julio Soberon at the central bank, will seek to chart a new economic course." 

Now Raul Castro has started to echo some of his daughter's sentiments. Addressing university students, he urged that they should ''fearlessly engage in public debate and analysis," according to Granma, the Communist Party newspaper. 

Cuba is one of several Latin American countries that once harassed homosexuals as a matter of policy. But Mariela Castro, who is also an executive member of the World Association for Sexual Health, insists that job discrimination and mass arrests are a thing of the past. 

"[Homosexuals] still sometimes face arrest by bigoted police" says Castro, adding that she has sometimes clashed with the authorities in her efforts to release gay men and women from prison. 

"Now, society is more relaxed. There is no official repression of gays and lesbians," she argues confidently. 

A writer turned politico 

Cuban writer and culture minister Abel Prieto has also emerged as an influential power broker in a changing Cuba. Since joining the state bureaucracy and the politburo, the long-haired, middle-aged minister still exudes a passion for culture and a common touch. 

In response to a question about the conflict of interest between writers and the state, Mr. Prieto laughs, saying that, "sometimes I feel like Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde, but I hope that artists and writers feel that I am still one of them." 

Unlike many members of the government, Prieto is very candid as he speaks about allegations that the Cuban government censors political websites. 

"It would be a delusion to think we could hide that torrent of information," he insists, referring to anti-Castro websites. "The only possibility is to beat them with a better concept of life." 

Prieto also defended the arrest of the dissident writer Raul Rivero in 2003. 

"He was not arrested for his views, but for receiving US funding for his collaboration with a country that has besieged our island," argues the minister, referring to the 45-year-long US trade embargo. 

An avid fan of the Beatles since the 1970s when their music was essentially banned by the Cuban state, Prieto has led an appreciation campaign of John Lennon. In 2000, he unveiled a statue and dedicated "John Lennon Park" to the musician's memory. Many Cubans joke that he is not as much a Marxist-Leninist as a "Marxist- Lennonist." 

Prieto, because of a moment on Cuban television five years ago, is known as one of the few Cabinet ministers who has ever dared to challenge the president. Cubans recall a news segment in which Castro and Prieto appeared together. 

After Castro blamed his minister for the fact that so many artists were leaving the country to work abroad, Prieto defended himself. 

Millions watched as their supreme leader accepted his error and apologized to Abel Prieto. 

"Prieto is extremely important. He has carved out a sizable space for cultural expression [for] many Cuban artists and writers since he became minister of culture," says Julia Sweig, director of the Latin American Studies at the Council on Foreign Relations in Washington. 

In a Foreign Affairs article, written after a lengthy visit to Cuba in November, Ms. Sweig indicated that expectations were high among Cuban officials that the government could move forward after Castro. 

"People at all levels of the Cuban government and the Communist Party were enormously confident of the regime's ability to survive Fidel's passing," Ms. Sweig wrote. 

That confidence was apparent in Raul Castro's speech to the opening session of the new parliament last week. "Tell it like it is - tell the truth without justifications, because we are tired of justifications in this revolution," the acting president urged his ministers, according to the youth newspaper Juventud Rebelde. 

US economic sanctions irrelevant 

Attempts by the Bush administration to set the agenda for change in Cuba, says Sweig, appear to be increasingly irrelevant to the reality inside the country, as a new generation gains increasing clout. 

Gott, the Latin American analyst, says that both Ms. Castro and Prieto are figures to watch.;

Even as votes are still being counted from Iran's twin elections last Friday, politicians of all stripes are declaring victory for their own factions. 

Conservative groups are hailing the large turnout - near 60 percent in elections for local councils and the powerful Assembly of Experts - as a public show of support for Iran's Islamic system and continued right-wing rule. 

On the other side of Iran's broad political spectrum, reform- leaning politicians appeared to have broken the four-year grip by conservatives on the Tehran City Council by winning a handful of seats there and on a string of local councils across Iran. 

Analysts say the inroads may prove the start of a comeback for reformists, who have been shut out of all power centers in Iran since the June 2005 election of arch-conservative President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad. 

The biggest surprise - and perhaps the most important omen for future changes - is the support for Ali Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani, a former president who was dealt a humiliating defeat by Mr. Ahmadinejad in last year's presidential runoff. 

With more than three-quarters of the ballots counted Sunday night, Mr. Rafsanjani was leading the race in Tehran for the Assembly of Experts, which supervises and can replace Iran's supreme religious leader. He took almost twice the number of votes as the ayatollah seen as Ahmadinejad's spiritual mentor, who trailed in seventh. 

"This will certainly be evident in the next [parliament] elections, [where] the majority will be reformists," says Mehdi Karroubi, the reform-leaning former parliament speaker. "The number of [reformist seats] depends on how the government handles themselves," says Mr. Karroubi, a presidential candidate who narrowly missed the runoff vote in 2005. "The sound you hear is a return to the reformist camp." 

Conservatives disagree 

But conservatives caution that it is far too soon to make predictions in a no-holds-barred political system that in the past decade has watched the reformist star rise spectacularly on a wave of popular desire for change - demonstrated during two landslide victories for former President Mohammad Khatami - and then fall when outmaneuvered by the right wing. 

These days, it is conservatives who have been fighting one another, dividing into multiple factions, while reformists try to redefine themselves and reunite in the political wilderness. 

"The reformists chose unpoliticized people [as city council candidates], who will be effective," says Hamidreza Taraghi, a former lawmaker and member of a conservative coalition. "These people are completely moderate and without extremist tendencies." 

He says that Rafsanjani's unequivocal victory over hard-line Ayatollah Mohammad Taqi Mesbah-Yazdi - who has helped shepherd Ahmadinejad's political career - was a function of name recognition and not a repudiation of the fiery president. 

Mr. Taraghi rejects talk of a reformist comeback but does not rule it out: "It depends on the conservatives. If they don't do a good job, the situation could change." 

Even newspapers were split over the meaning of early results. "Defeat for the supporters of the government," reveled one reformist daily on Sunday; and "Decisive victory for the conservatives," crowed a government paper. 

Five times the turnout of 2002 

Though all factions called for a large turnout, few expected so many Iranians to vote. Widespread apathy during the last local council vote in early 2002 yielded just a 12 percent turnout in Tehran - and a conservative victory. 

This time, election officials had to call for extra ballot boxes, and keep polls open three extra hours. 

High turnout usually favors reformists. In this case, many voters said they wanted to mark their displeasure with Ahmadinejad's abrasive policies abroad and inflationary economic policies at home. 

"The vote for Rafsanjani is very significant; [it] shows that the people of Tehran want to correct their errors of the last election," says Mohsen Kadivar, a reformist cleric and philosophy professor. "It means the school of thought of Ahmadinejad - in the form of Ayatollah Mesbah-Yazdi - has failed." 

Two Mesbah-Yazdi allies did not make the Assembly of Experts cut- off in Tehran, Reuters reported, quoting the official IRNA news agency. Three others lost in the provinces, though one captured a seat. 

As a test, the election was useful, says Mr. Kadivar but its future significance will depend on how many reformist are barred from parliamentary elections in two years; in the last majlis vote, 4,000 candidates were barred, most of them reformists. 

"This election is only a way of measuring power; it's not a real competition," says Kadivar. "The situation for reformists has become better, and conservatives feel this." 

Divisions among conservatives 

Conservatives, in fact, read something very different in the high number of people who voted. "They wanted to defend the Islamic revolution [of 1979] ... and show their support and confidence [in] politicians," says cleric Ali Teymouri, an election official in charge of a district with 120 ballot boxes. 

He noted that President Bush told Iranians not to vote in last year's presidential election, a point remembered by Ahmadinejad on Sunday. 

"The Iranian people have taken a decision to reach the summit of progress," he said. "As soon as they see that the enemy wants to stop them doing something, they carried it out." 

Indeed, Sayed Khalil Ahmadi, a mechanical engineer who stood in the line outside in a bitter wind holding his infant, until others insisted he jump the line and enter the warm mosque polling station, is a case in point. 

"We want the Islamic system, and want it to be the same," says Mr. Ahmadi, pulling a sleeve up over a tiny, bare wrist. "That's why I'm standing out in the cold with my baby." 

The election has also laid bare divisions among conservatives, whose primary camps include "fundamentalists" in the Ahmadinejad and Mesbah-Yazdi mold, and "traditionalists" who are more pragmatic and less ideological - for the city council race, they are close to Mayor Mohammad Baqr Qalibaf. 

"We tried to make one list, but all of our efforts were defeated," says Amir Mohebian, political editor of the conservative Resalat newspaper. "Why? Because unity when in power is harder [to achieve] than when you are out of power." 

A Tehran City Council evenly balanced three ways between the two conservative factions and reformists counts as a victory for reformists, says Mr. Mohebian, because they become the "dealmakers" who can side with either right-wing camp.;

</file>

<file= AmE06_A14>

The Congressional campaign of 2006 slouches toward election day through a grotesque landscape of torture and excuses for torture, scabrous messages from a Congressman to young boys, a Congressional cover-up of the same, murder and countermurder every day in Iraq (a heart-stopping 655,000 Iraqis have died since the invasion, according to a Johns Hopkins study), and nuclear fallout from North Korea (of the political if not the literal kind).
The stakes, as President Bush likes to say--and on this point he is correct--could scarcely be higher. But they include one stake he never mentions: the future of constitutional government in the United States, which his presidency and his party have put in serious jeopardy. The old (lower case) republican system of checks and balances and popular liberties, you might say, is in danger of replacement by a new (upper case) Republican system of arbitrary one-party rule organized around an all-powerful presidency. That many-sided danger, of course, is the subject of this series of articles. It is simply impossible to know in advance when, in a great constitutional crisis, the decisive turning point--the irrevocable capsizing--might come. We are left wondering whether we are witnessing just one more swing of the familiar old American political "pendulum," bound by its own weight to swing back in the opposite direction, or whether this time the pendulum is about to fly off its hinge and land us with a crash in territory that we have never visited before. There are strong arguments on both sides of the question. Yet there can be little doubt that the election on November 7 will be an event of the first importance in the story. If, by handing one or both houses of Congress to the Democrats--something that current polls say is likely--the public breaks the Republican Party's current monopoly on government power, an important beachhead of resistance will have been gained. But if the public assents to the status quo--confirming and deepening the ratification of Republican one-party rule already conferred in 2002 and 2004 (we cannot count the election of 2000, since Vice President Al Gore won the popular vote that year), it will be hard to see where the path away from the precipice lies.
As the decision has neared, every important institution of the republican system--the Supreme Court, the presidency, the Congress, the press--has been swept into the crisis. Also critical is the President's bid to achieve global military dominance by the United States, presented to the public as a kind of colossal footnote to the war on terror. The interplay, enacted on the electoral stage, between the attempt at dominance abroad and one-party rule at home is probably the most important specific mechanism of the crisis. Its evolution so far has had many surprising twists, turns, sudden spurts forward and reversals; and some recent events, though each perhaps familiar in itself, reveal a striking new pattern. Of special note is a remarkable yearlong, step-by-step process of trial and error in which the Administration, far from concealing its abuses of power, including the torture of prisoners, wound up giving them top billing in its electoral strategy.
A Political Problem
For some time, the Republican Party has been aware that it has a political problem. All year, Bush has gotten unfavorable marks in the opinion polls on every issue but one--dealing with the terrorist threat. (In the most recent polls, even this measure has turned negative.) On everything else--for example, the state of the economy, healthcare, the environment, even "trust"--a majority or plurality of the public has consistently rated the Democrats higher. In such a situation the standard counsel of today's political technicians, whose unalloyed cynicism few scarcely bother even to notice anymore, is to attempt to "elevate" the single issue favorable to one's party at the expense of the other issues, thus "framing the election," or "controlling the agenda," as it is variously put. The aim is not to persuade the public that your party is right on any particular issue but to choose among many issues the one on which the election will turn. The technique is available mainly to the party in charge of the White House, possessor of a PR megaphone that all but drowns out opposition voices, leaving them to sputter in impotence or waste their energies battling on tilted rhetorical battlefields of the Administration's choosing.
As early as January White House chief strategist Karl Rove issued the template for the campaign to come in a speech to the Republican National Committee. "The United States," he said, "faces a ruthless enemy--and we need a Commander in Chief and a Congress who understand the nature of the threat and the gravity of the moment.... Unfortunately, the same cannot be said for many Democrats." (He should have said "fortunately," for he planned to use his accusation--amplified and distorted--to renew the Republicans' lease on power in the fall elections.) As evidence of the President's successes, he cited the Iraq War. He stated, "This past year, we have seen three successful elections in Iraq. The Iraqi Security Forces are increasing in size and capability. Iraq's economy is growing.... In the words of the Commander of the Multinational Corps in Iraq: '2005 has been a historic year in Iraq, and it marks the rebirth of an ancient nation.'" He added, "To retreat before victory has been won would be a reckless act--and this President will not allow it." And the Democrats? "We now hear a loud chorus of Democrats who want us to cut and run in Iraq." It was not the last time we would hear this expression.
The tactic was hardly new. As Rove noted in his speech, it had led to success in 2002 and 2004. But a new problem arose and grew more acute during the year. The public turned, slowly but decisively, against the Iraq War. In January, when Rove spoke, polls showed on average that some 50 percent thought the war was a "mistake." By midsummer the number was up to 54. The words of the Commander of the "Multinational" Corps in Iraq had not been persuasive to the American electorate. Civil war was breaking out in the country, and the "rebirth of an ancient nation" was drowning in blood. (In the most recent round of polls, approval of the war has sunk to 40 percent.) Nevertheless, as the campaign season began, the public's support for Bush's handling of terror generally was still at 55 percent. This was the political gold that had to be refined from the slag heaps of low poll numbers on other issues.

Fighting the Caliphate
Clearly, a tactical if not a strategic shift in the election plan was needed. The political riddle that now needed an answer was how to exploit the war on terror when its alleged main front, the war in Iraq, was rejected by the public as a mistake.
A first answer to the riddle was found: Define the general, global war on terror so sweepingly that the specific war in Iraq dwindled to just one front on the epic battlefield. Around Labor Day the Administration rolled out its new political line.
The centerpiece of the campaign was a series of speeches by Bush. Billed as stock-taking on the anniversary of the September 11 attacks, they were in fact campaign speeches. The most eye-popping one was given to the Military Officers Association September 5, the day after Labor Day, the traditional beginning of election campaigns. Too strange to be captured in soundbites (although many of these, too, were supplied and recycled in the media), much of the substance of the speech curiously eluded coverage. For one thing, Bush couldn't stop citing Osama bin Laden, devoting four paragraphs to direct quotations from him and another dozen to paraphrases and citations of his words. The result for listeners was a queer impression that one had stumbled into an Al Qaeda videotape statement that somehow was being read out by the President. One almost expected to see Ayman Al Zawahiri sitting cross-legged beside him. (And, in fact, a recently released GOP ad actually does show bin Laden making his threats.)
In effect, Bush took Osama's evaluation of his own powers at face value. In his words, "America and our coalition partners have made our choice. We're taking the words of the enemy seriously." Bin Laden was aiming, Bush said in his own voice, at a "radical empire," a "totalitarian nightmare." Then, quoting bin Laden, he intoned, "'The whole world is an open field for us.'" If the United States didn't stop them, the President said, again speaking in his own, concurring voice, Sunni extremists would "remake the entire Muslim world in their radical image." They would do it in four stages. First, they would "expel the Americans from Iraq"; second, "establish an Islamic authority...and support it until it achieves the level of caliphate"; third, "extend the jihad wave to the secular countries neighboring Iraq"; and, fourth, initiate "the clash with Israel." And that was not all: "This caliphate would be a totalitarian Islamic empire encompassing all current and former Muslim lands, stretching from Europe to North Africa, the Middle East and Southeast Asia."
But the Shiites were busy, too, in the President's portrait. The leader of Hezbollah, Sheik Hassan Nasrallah, made a cameo appearance with an anti-American speech, also amply quoted by Bush. Iran and its nuclear program were brought into the ranks of America's Shiite enemies by this route.
But could Al Qaeda and/or Hezbollah actually accomplish all--or even any--of this? There are a multitude of evils that might befall Iraq if American troops withdraw (and an equal or greater number if they stay), but no reputable Middle East scholar thinks the conquest of the country by Al Qaeda is one of them. Experts assess the current fighting strength of Al Qaeda at several thousand at most. The serious contenders for power in non-Kurdish Iraq are the Shiite majority and the Sunni minority. As for an Al Qaeda-led totalitarian caliphate stretching from Baghdad to Jakarta, the idea was so outlandish that for days after the speech it went almost undiscussed, pro or con. What is more, the Shiites and the Sunnis, blurred into one menace by the President, are historic rivals and, in Iraq right now, mortal enemies (with the United States weirdly fighting on the Shiite side). Would a globe-spanning Sunni "caliphate" have the bomb? Or would it be the rival, Shiite, Iranian empire? Or maybe both?
Bush supplied no factual material for answering these questions. Instead, he summoned the ghosts of Hitler and Lenin back onto the historical stage. Hadn't the world "ignored Hitler's words" and wound up with "millions in the gas chambers" and a "world aflame"? And hadn't the world overlooked the pronouncements of Lenin in Zurich, and let him "establish an empire" that "killed tens of millions and brought the world to the brink of thermonuclear war"? So it would be with Osama, who now implicitly was menacing the world not only with a multinational totalitarian empire, genocide and world war but also with a thermonuclear holocaust.
With these stakes on the table, who would bother to take notice of the deaths of a few thousand American soldiers or even some few hundreds of thousands of Iraqis killed in Iraq? Shortly, indeed, in a phrase that summed up the new strategy, Bush described that war as "just a comma" in history's grand sweep.
Such was the fare that the Bush Administration was offering as the election season began in September. The strategy had a historical pedigree that certainly was much on the minds of both parties. In 1972 Senator George McGovern had run against Richard Nixon on an anti-Vietnam War platform. At that time, too, a constitutional crisis was brewing--the one that turned into Watergate and Nixon's resignation of the presidency. The public agreed with McGovern about the war, yet returned Nixon to office in a landslide.

</file>

<file= AmE06_A15>

PATRIOTS NOTEBOOK 
MINNEAPOLIS - Defensive lineman Richard Seymour traveled with the Patriots for tonight's game against the Vikings, although whether he plays is still in doubt. 
Seymour, who missed portions of the team's practices leading up to tonight's game, remains questionable on the injury report, giving him a 50-50 chance of playing. 
He injured his left elbow Oct. 22 at Buffalo, and has been wearing a brace on the elbow during practices. 
While Seymour made the trip, the team traveled without three starters - right guard Stephen Neal (shoulder), safety Eugene Wilson (hamstring), and tight end Daniel Graham (ankle), as well as reserve guard/center Russ Hochstein (knee). 
With Neal out, the Patriots normally would turn to Hochstein. But since Hochstein is out as well, the team likely will choose between third-year veteran Billy Yates - who filled in for Neal on two late series last week against Buffalo - or second-year player Nick Kaczur at right guard. 
Kaczur played some guard in training camp last year, but primarily has been a tackle, both in the pros and in college at Toledo. Yates was signed off the practice squad Oct. 21 and has experience at center and guard. 
With Wilson out at safety, the Patriots figure to turn to nine- year veteran Artrell Hawkins once again. Hawkins filled in for Wilson in wins over the Bengals and Dolphins, but came off the bench last week when Wilson returned from a hamstring injury. But Wilson injured his leg in the third quarter of the team's win over the Bills and has been limited since. 
Graham has been sidelined since injuring his ankle Oct. 1 against the Bengals. In his absence, the team has turned to Benjamin Watson and rookie David Thomas in its two tight-end sets. 
Behind enemy lines 
Former Patriots receiver Bethel Johnson is expected to handle the Vikings' kickoff return duties tonight in his second game since signing with the club Oct. 10. 
Vikings special teams coordinator Paul Ferraro also acknowledged that the Minnesota coaching staff tapped Johnson's knowledge of the Patriots, although he's not sure how much the team can gain from that. 
"We certainly talk about where he came from, what they did and that kind of thing," Ferraro said. "But there aren't any secrets. You look at the film and you can see what somebody is trying to get done. The New England Patriots are as sound and well-coached as any special teams unit in the league in my opinion. You put on the film, you see what you're going to get. They're not fancy but they're very physical. 
"Again, some of that is a little bit overrated. Those things change week to week, year to year. [Patriots special teams coach] Brad Seely knows that we're talking. Obviously, you're going to check with Bethel and just double check and make sure you've asked those questions, but there aren't a lot of secrets out there." 
Brown inching closer 
Receiver Troy Brown enters tonight's game with 531 career receptions, within striking distance of the franchise record of 534, held by Stanley Morgan (1977-89) ... Running back Kevin Faulk was upgraded from questionable to probable on the injury report ... Bill Belichick has a 1-3 career record against the Vikings. He's 1-1 as Patriots coach, with the team losing, 21-13, in his third game in New England, before posting a 24-17 win Nov. 24, 2002 ... The game is the Patriots' lone scheduled appearance on "Monday Night Football" this season, and the team's only game in a dome ... With tonight's game to be played on an artificial surface, quarterback Tom Brady looks to improve on his 18-1 career record on those surfaces ... The game will mark Brady's 96th consecutive start, which is third among active quarterbacks behind Brett Favre (248) and Peyton Manning (144) ... Rookie Willie Andrews enters as the Patriots' leader in special teams tackles, with eight. ... Harvard's Matt Birk, now in his ninth NFL season (all with the Vikings), will start at center in his 105th career regular-season game after missing all of 2005 because of hip and hernia injuries. 

PITTSBURGH - Rutgers stories. 
You want them? 
We've got them. 
Lots of them. 
Many ending with punch lines. 
Like the time Rutgers started to chart a course out of the dark ages as an Eastern independent and scheduled a game against the University of Tennessee. 
That prompted a pregame question from the Tennessee media: "What is a Rutgers?" 
But those were the bad old days, when Rutgers couldn't find its way out of a 10-by-10 room that had an 8-by-8 door. 
The new Rutgers went to a postseason game last season for the first time since 1978, dropping a 45-40 decision to Arizona State in the Insight Bowl. 
The magic ride has extended through the first half of this season, arriving at last night's game against Pittsburgh at Heinz Field. When the 19th-ranked and unbeaten Scarlet Knights met the once-beaten Panthers in a pivotal Big East game, the level of the Rutgers program was higher than it had been in 30 years. A win would elevate the Scarlet Knights to 7-0 for only the third time in the 134 years Rutgers has been playing college football. 
A win would guarantee the school's second consecutive bowl appearance, a first in the history of the program. 
Even with the recent success, the stories keep coming. 
At Rutgers, the expectations were so low that in 1998, following 2-9 and 0-11 seasons, then-coach Terry Shea was voted Big East Coach of the Year after a "successful season." The Scarlet Knights' record? 5-6 overall and 2-5 in the Big East. 
A year later, Rutgers returned to a more familiar neighborhood with a 1-10 record, which led to the dismissal of Shea and the start of another coaching search. 
Next up was Greg Schiano, who was hired in December 2000. The 34- year-old University of Miami defensive coordinator was the youngest head coach in the history of the Big East. 
Still, the stories of Rutgers's failures overwhelmed its successes. In the past two seasons that has changed, although the change has come with cynicism. 
Take this fall for instance, and the tale of a groundhog named Piscataway Phil. 
Phil, legend had it, came out every fall and saw his shadow, which meant another losing season for Rutgers. 
Phil didn't see his shadow last year, and the Knights went to a bowl game. No one has seen him this season, as Rutgers has won week after week. 
In fact, school officials are bringing in extra bleachers for the Thursday night ESPN game against Louisville Nov. 9, which could potentially match an 8-0 Rutgers team against an 8-0 Louisville team, although Louisville plays No. 4 West Virginia before it meets Rutgers. 
Again, the cynics have come out, prompting one longtime Rutgers observer to say, "They're bringing in bleachers now. I remember when they were bringing in people [to pad the crowd]." 
Last night's encounter was more than a Big East game, it was a Big East game between teams who apparently have turned the corner. 
Pittsburgh, which has made a strong revival in Dave Wannstedt's second season as coach, has flirted with fame before, dating to the days of Tony Dorsett, and then Dan Marino. The Panthers, led by quarterback Tyler Palko, who was leading the nation in passing efficiency, were off to their best start since the Marino-led team of 1982. 
But Rutgers, the state University of New Jersey? 
No. 1 in the country in scoring defense (8.33 points per game). 
No. 2 in the country in overall defense (221.3 yards per game). 
And there's running back Ray Rice (149.8 rushing yards per game, 11 TDs), who appears on a number of Heisman watch lists. 
"I've always been convinced, whether it's football or basketball, that Rutgers had the chance to be very successful," said Big East commissioner Mike Tranghese, who has watched the revival of his football league after it was raided by the Atlantic Coast Conference, which enticed Boston College, Miami, and Virginia Tech to join. "They made a lot of choices over the years that were incorrect." 
One of the choices director of athletics Bob Mulcahy made was to hire Schiano. 
When Rutgers stumbled again (2-9 and 1-11) in Schiano's first two seasons - as it had so many times through a series of coaches who had been brought in to revive the program over the past 20 years - the "Fire Schiano" movement began. "There was a lot of pressure on Bob to get rid of Greg," said Tranghese. "I talked to Bob about it and told him, `If you think he's the right guy, give him what he needs."' 
Mulcahy gave Schiano a contract extension, a boost in pay, and a vote of confidence that had substance. "They haven't had a lot to cheer about," said Tranghese. "To Greg's credit, he never thought that he couldn't take the program to the next level. When Bob hired Greg, it was as bad as it could be, both internally and externally. Greg has done so much to change that." 

Football
Chiefs quarterback cleared to practice 
Kansas City quarterback Trent Green, who was knocked unconscious in the Chiefs' season opener, has been cleared to practice. Green has missed nearly six weeks while recovering from a severe concussion he sustained Sept. 10 against Cincinnati. Green is expected to begin team workouts Wednesday ... Byron Leftwich's sore left ankle felt better, but the Jaguars quarterback remained questionable for Jacksonville's game at Houston. Leftwich missed practice Friday, wore a protective boot, and then had an MRI. Results showed "nothing serious," team spokesman Dan Edwards said ... Former University of Michigan coach Bo Schembechler was watching the Wolverines play from the hospital and feeling OK, the school announced during its game against Iowa. The 77-year-old Schembechler felt ill Friday at the taping of a weekly television show, was hospitalized, and held for observation in the cardiac unit. 
Auto racing 
Alonso qualifies ahead of Schumacher 
Fernando Alonso, closing in on a Formula One championship, was fourth fastest during qualifying for the Brazilian Grand Prix in Sao Paulo. He finished ahead of Michael Schumacher, the seven-time Formula One champion who is retiring after the race. Schumacher enters the season finale trailing Alonso by 10 points and with only a remote shot at an eighth title. Felipe Massa won the third pole position of his career, on the 2.67-mile Interlagos circuit ... Four members of the Toyota Formula One team were ambushed by gunmen near the Interlagos track, but no one was injured. Toyota spokeswoman Fernanda Villas-Boas said about 20 teenagers stopped her group and other cars as they left the circuit a day earlier. "Some people tried to escape and they started shooting," she said. "We lowered our heads and were able to flee. Thankfully, nothing more serious happened." ... Sebastien Bourdais clinched his third straight Champ Car series title while French countryman Nelson Philippe won the Indy 300 in another incident-filled Australian race. Bourdais secured the title when American A.J. Allmendinger, his closest pursuer for the season championship, crashed out on the 19th lap ... World of Outlaws sprint car series founder Ted Johnson died in Norman, Okla., after a long battle with cancer. He was 72. 
Skating 
Hedrick, Lamb win in Cup warm-up 
Olympic champion Chad Hedrick won at 5,000 meters and Maria Lamb captured the 3,000 in the fall World Cup qualifier for the US speedskating team in West Allis, Wis. Hedrick won in 6 minutes 43.08 seconds, far slower than his gold medal time of 6:14.68 at the Turin Games. Lamb won the women's 3,000 in 4:22.49 ... Maxi Baier, who at age 15 won the 1936 Olympic pairs figure skating title with her future husband, Ernst Baier, died in Garmisch-Partenkirchen, Germany. She was 86. 
 Miscellany 
Federer beats Nalbandian to reach final 
Roger Federer moved a step closer to his 10th title of the year, routing David Nalbandian, 6-4, 6-0, in the semifinals of the Madrid Masters.

</file>

<file= AmE06_A16>

SIMI VALLEY - Playing on one of the state's most successful softball teams can be a mixed blessing. 

Winning Marmonte League and Southern Section Div. I titles is a thrill, but playing in Royal of Simi Valley's successful program also means not always getting to play. 

TD 
 

Royal senior right fielder Paula Vargo has lived that experience. 

Although an elite travel-ball player for the Simi Valley-based SoCal Eliminators, Vargo was relegated to the bench her junior year, when she played behind standout Jen Troncoli on a loaded Highlanders team that went 29-2 on the way to league and section titles. She had just nine at-bats before suffering a season-ending Achilles' heel injury midway through season. 

Vargo now is making up for lost time with a vengeance. 

She leads the Marmonte League with a .588 batting average and has hit safely in all seven of the Highlanders' games. 

Royal (7-0 overall, 4-0 Marmonte), which has won 28 straight games, is ranked No. 1 by the Daily News and ranked No. 10 in the nation by USA Today. 

"It's my senior year, so I want to give it my all and go out with a bang," she said. 

Vargo said she enjoyed being part of the winning environment and was happy to contribute any way she could. But cheering on teammates and alerting infielders to opposing base runners on the move wasn't what more than 10 years of organized softball prepared her for. 

She acknowledges there were times she wished she was on the junior-varsity team, although she never shared those sentiments with coaches. 

"It was kind of hard just sitting around watching every play, but I tried not to let it get to me that much because I new my senior year I'd have my chance," Vargo said. "I just stuck it out and cheered for my teammates. I tried not to let it bother me." 

Vargo has made herself indispensable with her bat and glove, making several dazzling defensive plays, including an over-the- shoulder running catch that took away a two-run home run from an Agoura player at a crucial point in a 7-1 victory on March 21. 

"Without Paula, we would not be the same team," Royal coach Bill Dishon said. "Had we not had the situation we had last year, she might have done the same things. Right now, we can't afford to take her out of the lineup." 

Although Vargo didn't play much last season, her teammates and coaches say she was a more valuable asset to the team than she realized. 

"She just brought a really positive vibe to the team," Royal senior pitcher Rebecca Heteniak said. "I know I would have been really frustrated if I were her. It's a frustrating thing to not be able to play, for someone as good as Paula, but she just has a really positive attitude. 

"She kept her head in the game even when she was just sitting on the bench and would always compliment you when you made a great play. She was always just smiling and positive." 

Dishon said Vargo exemplifies the unselfishness he tries to instill in all his players. 

"There are some girls who don't get into games this year, and they know it's all about the team, not individual players," he said. 

Although her limited role last season didn't contribute to her development as a softball player, she believes the experience contributed to her development as a person, teaching her to set aside her personal feelings for the sake of teammates. 

"It encouraged me to work hard for something that you really want and to be a team player," Vargo said. "Even though I wasn't starting, I could still cheer for my teammates and help them out." 

gideon.rubin@dailynews.com 

(818) 713-3607 

DYNAMIC DUO 

Royal High of Simi Valley seniors Rebecca Heteniak and Jessi Waers form one of the state's most formidable pitching duos. Heteniak and Waers are a combined 6-0 and have yet to allow an earned run in 44 innings. Heteniak has struck out 34 batters and allowed nine hits and five walks in 27 2/3 innings. Waers has 20 strikeouts and has allowed nine walks and seven hits in 16 1/3 innings. 

RISING STAR 

Chaminade of West Hills sophomore catcher Brittany Cervantes' emergence has helped the Eagles to a strong start, one that included a six-game winning streak that ended with Friday's 5-3 Mission League loss to Alemany of Mission Hills. Cervantes is batting .344 with two home runs. "Brittany is a real rising talent who has demonstrated tremendous talent on offense and defense," Chaminade coach Jon Ellinghouse said. "She will be one of the premier players in the area for years to come." 

BIG UPSET 

The big news from the first weekend of the Birmingham of Lake Balboa tournament was Alemany of Mission Hills' 1-0 upset Friday over perennial City Section power El Camino Real of Woodland Hills, which was ranked No. 3 by the Daily News. 

Jen Day (4-1) pitched a five-hit shutout for the Indians, whose five-game winning streak was halted the next day in a 1-0 loss to Newbury Park. "They were definitely pretty intent on winning that game," Alemany coach Regina Hernandez said. "It was just matter of going out there and playing within themselves." 

LEAGUE UPDATES 

ALPHA 

After a sluggish start, Grace Brethren of Simi Valley (11-4, 1- 0) has won nine consecutive games and Saturday won its tournament. The Lancers are led by senior pitcher Jennifer Irvine, an early- season league MVP favorite who is 8-0 with a 1.70 ERA and is batting .556 with seven extra-base hits. 

FOOTHILL 

Valencia (14-2), ranked No. 2 by the Daily News, lost to Kennedy of La Palma 1-0 in Saturday's championship game of the prestigious Michelle Carew Classic in Anaheim. Valencia junior second baseman Nicole Matson went 3 for 3 in the title game and batted .533 in the five-game tournament, boosting her team-leading average to .468. Junior pitcher Jordan Taylor allowed just one earned run in 36 innings in the tournament and struck out 56 batters, pushing her season total to 203. 

GOLDEN 

Quartz Hill junior first baseman Candice Miller went 4 for 4 with a homer and two RBIs on Thursday in a 4-2 win over Lancaster. Miller last year helped Lancaster to its first league title before transferring. Quartz Hill (9-3-1, 3-1) was upset by Highland of Palmdale the next day, when the Bulldogs pushed across two runs in the top of the eighth inning of a 4-2 league win. 

MARMONTE 

Royal of Simi Valley, the Daily News' top ranked team, rallied from an early two-run deficit to defeat upset-minded Westlake 3-2 in 10 innings Thursday in a sloppy game. Royal committed three of the game's seven errors. Royal (7-0) climbed from No. 14 to No. 10 in USA Today's national rankings. 

OLYMPIC 

Junior pitcher Kaylyn Kolesar pitched a three-hit shutout to lead Paraclete of Lancaster to a 1-0 league-opening win Friday over Maranatha of Pasadena. Paraclete (7-5, 1-0) has won three in a row, none bigger than its triumph over Maranatha, which had won 15 of its previous 16 games. 

WEST VALLEY 

El Camino Real of Woodland Hills concluded a wild week with an 8- 0 victory over Agoura in its second game at the Birmingham of Lake Balboa tournament. Bianca Mejia homered in the 19th inning to lift the Conquistadors (13-1, 5-0) to a thrilling 2-1 victory Thursday over Hart of Newhall, and ECR breezed past Cleveland 9-0 Friday in a league game. ECR lost to Alemany of Mission Hills 1-0 in its Birmingham opener Saturday.; 
Today is huge for several U.S. players looking to show Bruce Arena something, anything, that might persuade him to include them in his Germany roster, but it's a World Cup lock's participation in the Americans' tune-up against Jamaica in Cary, N.C., that's cause for celebration. 

John O'Brien is a massively talented soccer player - as good or better than Landon Donovan or Claudio Reyna, the two most renowned Americans - and his return from injury offers more hope that the U.S. can overcome a horrific draw and reach the second round, or beyond, come June. 

Arena said Saturday that he hopes to give O'Brien 15-30 minutes, enough to gauge his health (finally good, O'Brien reports). Fitness will come, mostly through training and games with Chivas USA, which added the midfielder to its roster Tuesday. 

It'll be the first action he's seen since last summer, and he hasn't seen much action at all since the 2002 World Cup. Hamstring and Achilles' tendon injuries have limited him to eight club games in the past three years and led to his departure from Ajax Amsterdam, whose legendary youth academy he joined as a 16-year-old nearly a dozen years ago. 

He moved to ADO Den Haag last winter, made three appearances, then sustained a groin injury. If he plays for Chivas against the Galaxy on Saturday night, it will be his first club action since. 

O'Brien is adamant that he's not assured a World Cup trip, but common sense says otherwise. He was phenomenal in the Americans' quarterfinal run in 2002, and his unique qualities make him a must if he's anywhere close to healthy. 

"His decision-making is phenomenal," Donovan says. "People underestimate how quick he is. He's got a burst that's very deceptive. He's a soccer mind. He knows where the ball should go every time. He passes the ball, he puts it on the (correct) foot, he puts it in front of you when he needs to, he puts it behind you when he needs to - he understands those things, so you don't worry about service when he's in there." 

Arena has called O'Brien the Americans' finest passer, and Chivas USA coach Bob Bradley, aformer Arena assistant, agrees. 

"As far as his soccer brain, and the precision with his passing, John is a cut above ...," Bradley says. "It's not a surprise that he grows up in Ajax and he can play on those kinds of teams, because in terms of his thinking and his passing and the way he sees the game, I think he's pretty special." 

O'Brien has spent much of the past two years at Home Depot Center with Athletes' Performance, recuperating first from the hamstring/ Achilles' problems, then from the groin injury. AP trainers altered his mechanics, and O'Brien believes he won't be as prone to injury as he has been. 

"I've been susceptible to injuries - I don't know any other way to put it," he says. "I'm hoping to turn that around. I'm always hoping to do that, go out there and just play continually." 

--Big enough? Cuauhtemoc Blanco, no surprise, is moaning about being snubbed for Mexico's preliminary World Cup roster, also no surprise. 

The temperamental Club America striker might be the sole Mexican attacker capable of the truly unexpected, but he's woefully inconsistent, irritatingly outspoken and too often given to temper tantrums, qualities that have alienated coach Ricardo Lavolpe. 

Blanco, 33, who played at the 1998 and 2002 World Cups and was the pivotal figure in Mexico's 1999 Confederations Cup triumph, has seen limited national team action since Lavolpe took charge in late 2002. He pulled out after his selection for the CONCACAF Gold Cup last year, saying he needed rest, then quipped that Lavolpe didn't "have big enough trousers" when he was left off a World Cup qualifying roster in November. 

Lavolpe says there's nothing personal in his decision to leave Blanco home. He's content with Bolton striker Jared Borgetti, Mexico's all-time goals leader, Villarreal's Argentine-born Guillermo Franco and home-based stars Francisco "Kikin" Fonseca and Omar Bravo. 

--Chivas pays: Guadalajara was the big loser as the Mexican Primera Division headed into its stretch run without the World Cup hopefuls, who had the weekend off before joining Lavolpe's preparations Wednesday in Acapulco. 

Chivas, which by tradition fields an all-Mexican roster, surrendered six players to the national team - Bravo, Oswaldo Sanchez, Francisco Rodriguez, Carlos Salcido, Gonzalo Pineda and Ramon Morales - and paid for it with a 2-0 loss to Morelia. ;

</file>

<file= AmE06_A17>

As plans for new shopping districts with big-name retailers take shape in the Sarasota area, small independent store owners are quietly placing bets on the success -- or failure -- of each of them. 

They are betting with their businesses, trying to figure out which projects will make it and where their stores will fit in with the other retailers, and ultimately the customers, those districts will attract. 

Without experienced real estate divisions and corporate parents to guide them, the decisions can be tough -- and crucial. If location isn't everything, it's certainly a big factor in the success of any retailer. 

"Everything is so crazy right now in the city, where to go?" said Sergio Baril, owner of Mariposa Designs in downtown Sarasota. "Is it Main Street? Is it Lakewood Ranch? Is it the new mall at University (Parkway)? What's going to happen with St. Armands? 

"It's very difficult to predict what's going to be the center." 

Baril opened his store, which sells jewelry and other gift items, in fall 2004 in the Orange Dolphin Galleria building at the corner of Orange Avenue and Dolphin Street in downtown Sarasota. 

He has kept his eyes open for new spots despite a 10-year lease because of uncertainty about the building that was at one point considered for a city parking garage. 

Other retailers already are signing leases to be part of -- or close to -- new projects that could transform downtown Sarasota and Southwest Florida as a shopping destination. 

Janice McGuigan, for example, moved her 2 for me, 1 for you store from St. Armands Circle to Main Street earlier this year with the theory the downtown Sarasota is the place to be. 

Although McGuigan's store isn't officially part of Pineapple Square, a mixed-use project that includes 130,000 square feet of retail space, it could benefit from the added traffic -- or suffer if other projects pull shoppers away. 

Selling points 

Merchants looking for a site to open a business these days have a slew of new options. 

There's Pineapple Square and Main Street in the heart of Sarasota, where P.F. Chang's China Bistro and Morton's steakhouse are expected to draw tourists and locals. 

Close by, at Fruitville Road and U.S. 41, is a project to redevelop the old Quay property -- now Sarasota Bayside -- and its expected 145,000 and 210,000 square feet of retail. Ralph Lauren has been bandied about by developers as a possible tenant. 

The same developer handling leasing for the Quay project also created the new Main Street at Lakewood Ranch, featuring women's apparel retailer Chico's and gourmet grocery store Morton's Market. 

To the north, homebuilder Lennar has talked about a 500,000- square-foot lifestyle center at its Heritage Harbour development. 

Meanwhile, Benderson Development is working on a massive project called University Town Center, an upscale outdoor retail center to be built in two phases. So far a SuperTarget and Muvico movie theater have been named as tenants. 

A new theater also is planned at Westfield Sarasota Square where construction is under way to redevelop the mall, moving the food court, adding restaurants and making room for new specialty stores. 

Westfield is expected to overhaul both its malls in the Sarasota market, with plans still uncertain for Westfield Southgate, anchored by Saks Fifth Avenue. That mall is the tonier of the two centers and preliminary plans have shown a new two-story Saks and a total of 135,000 square feet of new shopping space. 

Even with those plans up in the air, the malls are among the known commodities in the market, along with the tourist mecca of St. Armands Circle. 

But uncertainty about what big retailers will anchor each of the new projects, Pineapple and the Quay, makes evaluating them difficult. 

Mike Fox, the former president of Maryland-based Chesapeake Bay Outfitters, is developing a new retailer he hopes to launch in the Sarasota area. Fox, who said Chesapeake splits sales about 75-25 between resort business and the local community, is working with a partner who has national retail expertise. 

"The problem that we're having is we're very experienced, therefore we're immune to each group's hype. We know the industry and we know how difficult this is going to be." 

Fox said he considers the two critical ingredients for a site to be the amount of traffic a site will draw and the rent structure in relation to how much sales he expects to generate from that movement of shoppers. 

"That basically rules out St. Armands," said Fox, meaning the destination's relatively high rents. 

Fox said putting a convention center downtown, easily accessible from Main Street and the Quay project, would be an important asset for the downtown region. 

"The convention center is the horse that's going to pull the cart," he said. "If I knew that convention center was going to built tomorrow, I would be signing a lease today." 

Parking is another factor important to retailers, just like their customers. 

Easy parking has always been a selling point for indoor malls, a contrast to downtown districts that struggle with issues of paid parking, street parking and reserved spaces. 

"If they don't solve the parking problem, there will be no location that is great," said Baril, who worries that the Florida heat could wilt some shoppers as they make the trek from their cars to the shops. 

"Shopping is a joyful experience. If you have to get there already sweating, the joy is gone." 

More locations, more stores? 

Lee Younger's Pineapple House Collection takes its name from a street in downtown Sarasota, but it doesn't have a store there. 

The business actually started in a 600-square-foot store on Pineapple Avenue, where it spent five years. 

It moved to Westfield Southgate after Younger and business partner Larry Bass started bulking up the retail side of the dual retail-interior decorating business. 

"We felt that our retail client was a little different than the market was at that time," said Younger, who also was looking for the extended hours and traffic a mall could provide. 

But the market has changed as Younger's business has swelled to three stores -- one in Westfield Southgate, one in Westfield Sarasota Square and one under construction at Lakewood Ranch's new Main Street project -- and a return to downtown is now a possibility. 

He started reading about the new retail developments coming to Sarasota about two years ago, and has talked to developers for "a couple different ones." 

For merchants like Younger, new shopping districts in the Sarasota area offer an opportunity for growth. 

Instead of moving from an old spot to a new one, they are expanding and recognizing the different niches forming as the market grows and shows different personalities for communities such as Lakewood Ranch, South Sarasota County and downtown Sarasota. 

In addition to his signature black-and-red theme, Younger plans different concepts for each of his stores. 

The one at Westfield Southgate will get an expanded gallery of Waterford crystal pieces. The Lakewood Ranch store now under construction will be more suburban and "high style." If a downtown store opens, it would likely have a sleeker, more contemporary and "metro" feel, he said. 

If Pineapple House renews its lease to keep a store in Westfield Sarasota Square, it might go for a more casual look to match the family-friendly mall. 

Yvonne Schloss opened up a second store for her Sunglass Express & Rx Optical on the Lakewood Ranch Main Street in part to be closer to her customers, who used to travel to her other store on St. Armands Circle. But she also liked the feel of the project, choosing that site over ones in downtown Sarasota. 

"I just liked the whole idea of the feeling of the project," she said about the shopping district that includes a Morton's Market, a second site for the gourmet grocery store that is on Osprey Avenue in Sarasota. "I'm more of a hometown girl than a downtown girl." 

Younger, the Pineapple House owner, suggests some careful consideration before jumping into any of the new options facing merchants today. 

"You have to really consider what you're doing, think it through," said Younger. 

It's important to talk with a project's developer and marketing representative to get a feel for what they really see the project becoming, he said. 

"Let's face it, they're selling something, and everyone's going to be the best." 

ABOUT THE SERIES 

THURSDAY 

The retail landscape is being transformed in Southwest Florida as growth in condominiums and homes draws stores and restaurants we might not have otherwise seen. 

FRIDAY 

With the retail boom in Southwest Florida come high-end restaurant chains. Developers say these chains will complement the existing restaurant base, but people expecting to compete against P.F. Chang's China Bistro and Morton's steakhouse worry about a turn toward "Generica." 

TODAY 

Southwest Florida's boom leaves many existing businesses 

in the crosscurrent between their old home and newly developing shopping nodes. These businesses face a difficult choice: Stay or go? 

RETAIL BONANZA 

Developers and retailers are set to gather next week for the International Council of Shopping Centers annual convention in Las Vegas. 

More than 37,000 people are expected to mingle and make deals at the event, which kicks off Sunday with an appearance by former President Bill Clinton.
 
Sarasota retail players, including Casto Lifestyle Properties, Benderson Development and Westfield Group, all are expected to have spots on a massive leasing mall covering 1.3 million square feet. Herald-Tribune business reporter Lauren Mayk will be there, reporting on retail projects in the works from Manatee County to Punta Gorda. ;

Consider yourself warned: if you live in southern or Central Florida, you live in a tinderbox. 

A Monday afternoon brushfire that shut down a section of Interstate 75 in Hillsborough County and a much larger wildfire ravaging Florida's east coast should underscore that sobering reality, one that fire officials from Sarasota to Orlando to Daytona Beach and points southward have been dealing with since March. 

Indeed, nearly the entire Florida peninsula south of the chain of lakes is dangerously dry and capable of lighting up at the drop of a match. 

And, especially for folks who live in or near rural and forested areas, there's another month of wildfire angst to cope with before, it is hoped, the return of daily rains will drench the region and the threat. 

Just how dry is it? 

The state forestry division measures how dry conditions are on the ground on a scale between 0 and 800. The higher the number, the drier the conditions. Fire officials start becoming especially concerned about the risk of wildfire at about 500. 

Sarasota, Charlotte, DeSoto and Hardee counties all are well above 600 for the first time since 2001. Manatee County is nearing 600 and should top it this week. 

Only three-quarters of an inch of rain has fallen since March 1, nearly 5 inches below normal for that timeframe. 

And there's no rain in the forecast for the next week, and not likely to be much precipitation for at least another month, according to SNN Channel 6 meteorologist Justin Mosely. The only hint of good news, Mosely said, is the dew point, which has been inching up in recent weeks, indicating more moisture in the air. 

Adding to the concern is the amount of dead vegetation on the ground, left over from two years of hurricanes and an ill-timed freeze earlier this year. Combined with a dry start to the year that forced fire officials across the region to shelve their prescribed burn programs in March, there is enough fuel on the ground to make even the smallest brush fire a threat to turn into something much worse. 

"I would say we're on high alert," said Mike Keegan, state forester for the five-county district of Manatee, Sarasota, Charlotte, DeSoto and Hardee. "When we do have a fire, we are probably throwing more resources at them than needed. ... Everyone is being more cautious, and rather than just using water they're usually putting a line around it so it can't creep out of the burned area." ;

</file>

<file= AmE06_A18>

TAMPA - For more than a decade, students poured into Florida schools like water from an open faucet. 

Now that enrollment numbers are well under state projections in most counties, including Hillsborough County, experts say they know why. The state forecast 50,536 new students but will be lucky to see 30,000, said Wayne Blanton, Florida School Boards Association's executive director. 

The repeat theme: Housing and insurance in Florida are just too expensive for working families with children. 

"The productivity type individual - young families, the service workers - just aren't coming," Blanton said. 

The state won't tally numbers until October, but most districts report that growth has slowed or stopped because fewer families with children are moving to the state, Blanton said. 

In Hillsborough, the nation's ninth-largest school district, with nearly 192,000 students, 4,200 to 7,500 more students enrolled annually for the past seven years. This year, Hillsborough's growth is just 1,703 students more than last year. 

That's fewer new students than much smaller neighboring counties. Although both saw new enrollment under state projections, Pasco County reports 1,996 more students so far this year and Polk County 2,500. 

Officials in those counties say their growth rates may be outstripping Hillsborough's in part because of lower housing costs with easy commuting to nearby counties. 

"This year and the year before, it's just been astronomical," said Bruce Tonjes, Polk County schools' associate superintendent. 

For years, Polk experienced about 1 1/2 percent growth, Tonjes said. This year it looks like it will double to about 3 percent over last year. 

"It's not a single issue," said Tonjes, who has tracked student numbers for about 14 years. Polk still has many rural areas, few condominium conversions and a number of mobile home parks. 

Hillsborough's numbers aren't low because students are leaving. In fact, 2,093 fewer moved out of the district or state after the school year ended in 2006, compared with 2005, district records show. 

Cost Of Living Blamed 

School principals said they know what's changing growth patterns. 

"I know exactly the reason," said Sharon Beaubien, principal at Chiles Elementary in New Tampa, which is nearly 100 students below projections this year as it builds 16 additional classrooms. 

"We have four really upscale apartment complexes that have gone to condo conversions, three within a block of my school," Beaubien said. "A lot of my families had to move out. I called each of the property managers. Between the four of them, there are 500 empty units." 

Leasing signs are back up on the condos, Beaubien said, so she expects students will move back in to fill the new classrooms, also built to move students out of nine portable classrooms. 

Older, established neighborhoods such as Tampa's Seminole Heights also are seeing lower enrollments. The school is 122 shy of its projected 573 students. 

"I think the community dynamics are changing," said Jackie Masters, principal at Seminole Heights Elementary. "There are young, young couples who haven't started families yet. There are families with life partners. Some grandparents are returning to the neighborhood." 

Like other Hillsborough schools with lower than expected enrollment, Seminole Heights Elementary will be more easily able to meet state class-size reduction requirements - and move classes from portables to four empty classrooms. 

Last year, when numbers started falling below projections, Blanton said, "I thought it would be a blip on the screen - we would jump back up. Apparently it's not a blip on the screen." 

Having the opportunity to catch up to growth in building and not fall further behind in the quest for teachers is good news, Blanton said. 

On the other hand, "if we're not careful, the insurance crisis is going to turn into an economic crisis in terms of the workers we need." 

Miami-Dade Is Losing Students 

This year, lower, flat or negative growth is statewide and includes Miami-Dade County, which experienced a 41 percent increase in growth from 1985 through 1995 but now is losing students. Other districts in declining enrollment are Pinellas County, in its third year of dropping numbers, and Orange, Duval and Broward counties. 

Palm Beach has about 1,100 fewer students than last year, including fewer kindergarten students, said Art Wittman, demographer for Palm Beach County schools, which saw their first decline in enrollment since 1971. 

"The baby boomers are here," Wittman said. "As that bubble creeps forward, they're going to be a larger share of the housing market." 

South Hillsborough Realtor George Bodmer said he knows of no agency that tracks types of families moving in and out of the state, but records show second home and condo sales were responsible for increased sales last year. 

"I don't know what's happened to the kids," Bodmer said. "We don't see anybody bailing out of the state." 

Meanwhile, many districts were caught off guard, even those such as Hillsborough that saw the number falling despite state projections. 

"We could see that it's slowing down, so we ratcheted down our numbers," said Lorraine Duffy Suarez, Hillsborough's manager for growth management. "We've talked to a lot of builders who are saying, 'Where are the people?' I don't think they've ratcheted down enough either or they wouldn't have empty houses sitting out there." 

In rural Highlands County, "we have a lot of homes under construction," said Mike Averyt, the school district's director of business operations. Lower housing costs seem to be buoying a reverse trend. 

Highlands grew by more than 300 students this year after adding just 105 the year before, Averyt said. The district has 12,178 students. 

"We're trying to get more portables in here," Averyt said. The district hasn't built a school in a decade, he said, but plans a new elementary and bought an old Food Lion store to convert to a kindergarten center. 

"It's still cheaper to live here than the east or west coast," Averyt said. 

(CHART) GROWTH LEVELING OFF 

The Hillsborough County school district's enrollment figures for the 20th day of school posted large, steady gains until this year. 

'00 - 160,608 

'01 - 166,074 

'02 - 171,399 

'03 - 177,573 

'04 - 185,024 

'05 - 190,179 

'06 - 192,184* 

* 24th day of school year ;

TAMPA - Most Republican voters face a simple decision in the U.S. Senate primary - Katherine Harris, or one of the three others? 

Many probably can't name the three others. 

LeRoy Collins Jr., Will McBride and Peter Monroe, however, each hope to emerge as the challenger who could have a shot at taking the nomination from Harris. 

Their battle seems to be narrowing to two: 

--Collins, a Tampa resident, retired nuclear missile submarine officer and son of an illustrious former governor 

--McBride, a young Hispanic immigration lawyer from Orlando with connections to a family of high-level conservative activists 

The winner of the Sept. 5 primary will run against the incumbent Democrat, Sen. Bill Nelson. 

Harris, meanwhile, scarcely notices her challengers. A Harris campaign television ad that began airing Friday attacks Nelson but doesn't mention her Republican rivals. 

McBride, in part using his own money, is the only challenger so far to run television ads, and it might stay that way. 

Besides that, his biggest advantage might be his alignment with the party's religious conservative base. 

Collins, in part because of his defense credentials, has won several newspaper endorsements and might benefit from the name made famous by the late Gov. LeRoy Collins, who served from 1955-61 and was a hero in the civil rights movement. 

Both, though, have political problems. 

Monroe and Collins have attacked McBride over immigration, citing his participation in an April rally in Tampa by immigrants who oppose immigration reforms and favor amnesty for illegal immigrants. 

McBride says he got involved only because rally organizers asked him to be their legal adviser and deal with reporters and authorities. He said he doesn't favor amnesty. 

Meanwhile, McBride points out that Collins is pro-abortion rights, disagreed with Gov. Jeb Bush's intervention to prolong the life of Terri Schiavo and favors civil unions for same-sex couples. 

"He might as well put a 'D' after his name," McBride said. 

Collins acknowledges those stands, though he adds that he personally opposes abortion and thinks most women who have abortions later regret it. 

He said his "common-sense approaches" to social issues put him closer to the mainstream than McBride, a staunch religious conservative. 

Monroe's Experience 

Monroe has more experience in government than either but appears from the scanty evidence available - polls and the buzz among Republican insiders - to have attracted the least support. 

A Harris campaign spokeswoman wouldn't comment directly on the three challengers. 

Harris "is the only Republican candidate with a proven record of success that can beat Bill Nelson in November," Jennifer Marks said in a written statement. "Our campaign has one focus and one focus only: to beat Bill Nelson in November." 

There are no concrete indications so far that any of the three threatens Harris, who plans to continue running television ads. 

"Nothing's wrong with these three guys, but they're all political novices, and none has the financial resources to bump their name identification into Katherine Harris territory," Tallahassee Republican political operative Rick Wilson said. 

But primary voters probably will at least look for an alternative, said another veteran GOP operative, Todd Harris, who is of no relation to Katherine Harris. 

"There is a mountain of evidence as tall as the Sunshine Skyway that suggests Katherine Harris should not be the nominee," he said. "It's causing people to give some of the other candidates a look." 

Collins spokesman Chris Ingram said he's under no illusions. 

"We've certainly got to get past the 800-pound gorilla first," he said in reference to the Harris campaign. "This campaign's biggest enemies are time and money." 

McBride said polls show that Republicans who think Harris can't beat Nelson should rally behind him. 

A July Mason-Dixon Polling & Research survey showed McBride leading among the challengers with 11 percent, followed by Collins with 8 percent and Monroe at 2 percent. Harris got 36 percent, and 43 percent were undecided. 

A Quinnipiac University poll in June showed Nelson far ahead of any of the four. McBride, however, came slightly closer than Harris. 

In May, when all three filed at the last minute to challenge Harris, McBride got the most attention because of what some said was his promise to spend $5 million of his own money to defeat Harris. 

State Rep. Dennis Ross of Lakeland decided against entering the race as a result. 

McBride denies he ever said that. He has put $728,000 of his money into the race so far. 

"We're going to do what it takes to give us a shot at winning," he said. "But at the same time, I don't want to just throw it away. I want to take calculated risks." 

McBride's Connections 

McBride's wife is the daughter of Stuart Epperson of North Carolina, wealthy founder of a national chain of conservative Christian radio stations and an associate of activists in the conservative wing of the Republican Party, including prominent religious right figures and White House political guru Karl Rove. 

So far, however, there aren't any signs of national-level help for McBride from that connection. 

McBride denied that he changed his views on immigration when he decided to run, as Collins and Monroe have charged. 

He said he favors immigration reform and thinks border security should be a top priority. Although he opposes "amnesty," he said, he thinks a reform bill should allow illegal immigrants to "adjust their status" and continue working here. 

At one point during the rally, however, he was photographed carrying the sign of a pro-amnesty group. He later made a Spanish- language television spot advertising his legal services and urging immigrants to call Congress members and vote for their interests. 

Collins' Stands 

Collins comes from a larger city, where he and his family name are well-known, but says he'll probably depend on news coverage and personal appearances to make himself known. 

He said a major TV campaign "sends the wrong message anyway, the huge amounts of money. ;

</file>

<file= AmE06_A19>

Aug. 21--As a man, Seth Gurney is a distinct minority in the College of Veterinary Medicine at the University of Georgia. 

Gurney says his friends in medical school probably consider small-animal medicine a "woman's profession," but he never had reservations about attending the nearly 78 percent-female vet school. 

"I like (caring for) animals over people," said Gurney, who considered medical school as a back-up plan because he could expect to earn enough as a doctor to make up for the expense of schooling. 

In 1975, only about a quarter of students in UGA's professional schools -- law, pharmacy and veterinary medicine -- were women; today women make up 70 percent of professional school enrollment. 

In that same 30 years, women have overtaken men as a majority on campus and continue to widen that gender gap. 

In fall 1975, 45 percent of all UGA students were women. By 1988, the number grew to almost 55 percent and by 2005 to 57 percent, generally following the national trend. 

Female students are moving ahead of their male peers as early as secondary school, where educators have trouble graduating college-ready boys, setting the stage for a gender gap in college and beyond. 

Labor experts say once the genders are off balance, the problem only seems to get worse, since men aren't likely to enter a fields dominated by women (and visa versa), and if they do, are less likely to be promoted. 

"Women and men should feel equally valuable in any occupation," said Mike Wald, regional economist for U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics. 

Why more women? 

More and more women are attracted to professional fields for flexibility -- whether physical, financial or personal, experts say. 

Second-year pharmacy student Tracy Dobbs originally considered medical school but pharmacists are in demand and have more flexible schedules than doctors. 

"I wanted to go into pharmacy because I want to have a family, and the hours and the salary are good for that," Dobbs said. "I can work part-time and get the hours I want." Pharmacy school also is a better financial deal because, as a four-year program that begins at the undergraduate level, the HOPE Scholarship pays for it, she said. 

In fall 2005, about 67 percent of pharmacy students were women, up from 62 percent in 1998. 

Thirty years ago, pharmacy students were predominantly male, but as recently as the late 1990s, the student body was balanced between men and women, said George Francisco, the pharmacy school's associate dean for academics. 

"If you look at it, it's probably more career and salary-driven -- you can still make a good living with a part-time salary," Francisco said. 

Pharmacy pays well compared to other health-care fields but is more flexible -- pharmacists can leave and return to practice without disrupting a patient base, Francisco said. 

Vets don't enjoy as flexible a schedule for starting a family, said vet school acting associate dean Paige Carmichael, who recommends that vet students have children while they are still in school and have more time. 

But in the past few decades, vet work has changed -- some vets specialize in small-animal work, an attractive change for professional women who don't want to handle horses and cattle. 

About 78 percent of vet school students in fall 2005 were women, a 19 percent increase from 1998. 

"Twenty years ago, you treated everything," said Carmichael, who once was a small-animal vet herself. "(Now) they don't have to treat a horse if they don't want to." A wide income difference between veterinarians and doctors may draw medically inclined male students to medical school instead of vet school because of the higher payback for the investment, said Ashley Neary, a second-year vet student. 

Women also are more prepared than their male counterparts in terms of the grades, test scores and other prerequisites for vet school, Neary suggested. 

The drop-off in male enrollment after the first four years of college, especially from undergraduate business programs, is all about the job market, said risk management senior Taylor Noland, who, after weighing graduate school with getting a job, decided against an advanced degree. 

"You have to take a job from the opportunities you are given," Noland said, adding that getting an MBA right away isn't necessary. "The skills that you learn at MBA school you're not going to need for the next 20 years." The HOPE Scholarship also doesn't pay the higher cost of graduate school where "not many kids can afford to go right out of college," Noland said. "If you go get a job with a company, they're going to pay for grad school down the road." Men also may be less comfortable asking parents to help pay for graduate school, he said. 

Solving the puzzle The gender gap is widening, many experts say, because girls are maturing faster, are more focused than boys and engage in activities that are more "developmentally advantageous," said UGA President Michael Adams. 

Lifestyle, including financial goals and a lack of preparation -- male students often spend more time with sports than studying -- are factors that contribute to the widening gender gap from college to graduate school, Adams said. 

"When I came along, it was expected if you were a really good student, that you went on to graduate or professional school," Adams said of the culture among male students. "I think we've lost some of that in the last 30 years." Women continue to outnumber men at the undergraduate level, but the difference has grown even wider in graduate school, from about 42 percent female in 1975 to almost 58 percent in 2005. 

The lack of an engineering school at UGA -- Georgia Tech was about 73 percent male in fall 2005 -- could be tipping the scales toward a female majority, compared to other major American universities that have engineering programs. 

The vet school's emphasis on research and public health has begun to attract more men to the school, where the doctoral program is now evenly divided by gender, Carmichael said. 

The number of men in the vet school has been inching up in the last couple years to 24 percent this fall, even though only about 17 percent of the applications for admission were from men. 

In the pharmacy school, men have made up about 35 percent for nearly a decade, but that doesn't bother school administrators. 

"We really don't see it as a problem," Francisco said. "The biggest consumers of health-care needs are women, so I don't see it as a bad thing that there are more women (becoming pharmacists)." A stronghold of women hasn't deterred third-year pharmacy student Chad Coulter. 

Coulter was attracted to the health-care field but didn't want the trappings of a medical degree. 

"It's shorter and I really didn't want to get out when I'm 30," he said, adding that some male students he knows are opting for an even shorter, yet still lucrative, route in the business school. 

Men aren't shying away from all graduate and professional programs, however. 

The law school generally maintains a gender balance in its student body, even as the number of women has grown in the last few years. Women studying law outnumbered men by a narrow margin in fall 2005 and this fall's incoming class is 55 percent male and 45 percent female. 

Students who enroll in the law school reflect the applicant pool, so some years there are more women and some years there are more men, said Giles Kennedy, director of law admissions. 

"We don't have any targets or goals" and don't do anything to specifically recruit women, Kennedy said. "I think what happens over time is we just take what's been given." Regardless of a gender balance in some schools and programs where more men and women are enrolling, the overall gap in higher education continues to widen with every entering class. 

At UGA, the number of men in freshman classes has dropped from 43 percent in 1998 to 37 percent in 2006. 

Educators need to do a better job preparing boys for college, and once they are there, do a better job of encouraging talented male students to seek advanced degrees as a "valuable alternative" to entering the workforce right out of college, Adams said. 

"Usually by age 25, people have finished their formal education" and are unlikely to return for a higher degree, said labor economist Wald. 

Men have left higher education behind in favor of high-paying jobs like construction and mining, he said. 

"I think it's taken us several years to get into this situation and it's going to take us several years to get out of it," Adams said. "We may need to do some more marketing ... (and) we've got to change some social norms." The loss of American males in higher education is "a serious problem," he said. "I don't believe anybody has figured it out yet." ;

Oct. 1--Crisp, cool evenings and football frenzy can mean only one thing... it's time to get ready for Christmas. 

The first day of fall (Sept. 23) is barely a week old, yet many of Athens' major retailers are well into gearing up for the Christmas holiday, a crucial season for sales. 

Twenty-five percent to 40 percent of retailers' annual revenue stems from holiday sales, said Kathy Grannis, a spokeswoman with the National Retail Federation. 

In 2004, shopping malls took in $227.8 billion -- 28 percent of their annual sales -- in November and December, according to the International Council of Shopping Centers. 

"(Holiday sales) definitely have an impact on retailers planning and when they plan," Grannis said. "And it has an impact on how they plan for the following years." In marketing circles, the trend of holiday shopping starting earlier and earlier is known as "Christmas Creep." "It's a retail mentality that you need to be first out of the gate, and people keep making the race longer and longer," said William Cody, managing director of the Baker Retailing Initiative at the University of Pennsylvania's Wharton School, according to a recent story in the Philadelphia Inquirer. 

Experts say the importance of holidays sales to retailers' bottom line can't be underestimated, but Grannis said major retailers also simply are giving consumers what they want. 

"Retailers start holiday shopping early because consumers are asking them to," Grannis said. "If consumers continue to buy before Halloween, retailers will keep (starting early)." In order to serve those customers who plan for Christmas months in advance, the Hobby Lobby crafts store in Athens initiated its first phase of Christmas merchandise this past summer. 

"We're a crafts store, so for everybody who likes to get done ahead of time, we usually set up around June," said Gretchen Adams, store manager of the Athens Hobby Lobby. 

Adams added that Hobby Lobby puts up its Christmas trees and related items in August, then follows up with what the store calls its second phase -- merchandise such as Christmas tins and wrapping paper -- after Thanksgiving. Adams said her store doesn't really decorate the store, but let's its large seasonal section provide the store's holiday appearance. 

Decking the halls at Michael's Arts & Crafts shop begins in August, said Joe Murdock assistant manager with the Athens Michaels. 

"We got the first bit of Christmas in August, and it comes in slowly," Murdock said. "We haven't set up our trees or all the ornaments." Murdock said the first wave of seasonal inventory Michaels puts on display includes Christmas houses, the small buildings people use to create miniature Christmas villages. The store also began selling craft items and make-your-own ornaments in August. 

Michael's has been receiving two truck shipments a week since August, Murdock said, and one of those two weekly trucks is filled with Christmas merchandise. 

Early August is a fairly typical time for retailers to begin stocking holiday goods, Murdock said, because many people, especially those building tiny villages, want to make sure they get a certain house or store before the items are sold out. Numerous consumers also plan and design their Christmas dcor well ahead of December, Murdock said. ;

</file>

<file= AmE06_A20>

When Ban Ki Moon received word last week that North Korea might be planning to test a nuclear device, he had reason to be anxious. As South Korea's Foreign Minister, Ban is a key player in the six-party talks aimed at finding a diplomatic solution to the dispute over Pyongyang's nuclear program. A test would scuttle those talks and likely lead to a renewed U.S. push for sanctions against North Korea. And so in the middle of Chuseok, the Korean Thanksgiving, Ban, 62, was on the phone to his counterparts in Moscow, Beijing, Washington and Tokyo, building a response to the North Korean announcement. Speaking to TIME between calls, Ban said he was "much worried and troubled" about the possibility of a nuclear test. That's in part because of the impact it could have on the job he may be about to land: Secretary-General of the United Nations. "I hope this situation will not cause any problems to my current candidacy," he says.
With the 192-nation General Assembly likely to vote on the next head of the U.N. this week, Ban has emerged as the clear favorite to replace outgoing Secretary-General Kofi Annan. If Ban gets the job, he'll have to get used to managing problems beyond the Korean peninsula. With the world confronting conflicts from Darfur to Afghanistan, many people expect the Secretary-General to be a global avatar of peace, as Annan in his best moments sought to be. Just as daunting is the challenge of cleaning house at the U.N., which has been dogged for years by mismanagement, inefficiency and corruption--crystallized in the oil-for-food scandal that tarnished Annan's tenure. Add to that the task of refereeing between the U.S. and countries like Russia and China, which are determined to chart their own course, and you get an idea why Annan calls it "the most impossible job in the world." "It would help if the next Secretary-General was a brilliant, compelling leader," says a U.N. official. "But to actually be chosen for the job, the candidate must be a person who offends no one."
Inoffensiveness is Ban's outstanding quality. He has spent 36 years as a diplomat, almost all of them outside the spotlight. His peers praise his understated "Confucian approach," as one Chinese expert puts it, but some wonder whether Ban has the steel to play a leading role on the international stage--a question that's been sharpened by North Korea's latest provocation. "This will be the first time he's ever been his own boss," says Peter Beck, the Seoul-based director of the International Crisis Group's Northeast Asia project. "Can he really assert himself and stand up to governments that act contrary to the U.N.?" His allies say that it's a mistake to assume that Ban is as diffident as he might sometimes appear. "It's a typical Oriental style," says Yoon Young Kwan, Ban's predecessor as South Korean Foreign Minister. "He is soft-spoken, but inside he has a strong view and strong motivation."
A self-described "country boy," Ban was born in 1944, when South Korea was under Japanese occupation, and spent his childhood in the shadow of the Korean War. He had diplomatic postings in New Delhi and Washington, at the U.N. and in Vienna before becoming South Korea's Foreign Minister in 2004. The years abroad gave him global contacts and helped protect his reputation from the taint of South Korea's toxic political environment. "He doesn't make enemies," says Yan Sun Mook, the chairman of the opposition Democratic Party's international-relations committee. "He makes friends." But Ban can also be tough. In the face of opposition from his own diplomats, Ban reformed Seoul's foreign ministry, replacing a promotion system based on seniority with a meritocratic one. He's an "iron fist in a velvet glove," says an aide.
Pursuing the U.N. job has required Ban to make nice with both the U.S. and China, a challenge even for a diplomat of Ban's skills. The U.S. preferred either Latvian President Vaira Vike-Freiberga or former Afghan Finance Minister Ashraf Ghani, but both were vetoed by other permanent Security Council members. Washington's reluctance was due in part to South Korea's growing coziness with China and by Seoul's "sunshine policy" of engagement with Pyongyang, which some Administration officials say has hindered efforts to get tough with North Korean leader Kim Jong Il. The U.S. is skeptical that Ban, long careful to avoid stepping on toes, would really be willing to challenge the entrenched interests inside the U.N. that are opposed to reform.
Ban dismisses the notion that the U.S. and South Korea have drifted apart: "We are going through a very important transformation period, but our relationship is very sound and healthy." So far, reaction to Pyongyang's announcement of a planned nuclear test has been unified, with even China, the closest country North Korea has to an ally, warning Pyongyang that a test would bring "serious consequences." Ban is so intent on resolving the North Korean dispute that he says he might visit Pyongyang himself as Secretary-General--something Annan never did. "I've gained a deeper experience and understanding into this complex issue," he says. "Having known all the history and background and having known people in both the South and the North, I'm convinced I can do much better than any other person." He may soon get the chance to prove it.
On a dusty side street in Somalia's former capital, there's little that distinguishes Mohammed's stall from the others. A grenade rests against a box of ammunition next to a row of AK-47s, and still more rifles hang from nails beneath a patch of tin roofing. His booth occupies prime real estate in the center of Mogadishu's Bakaraaha Arms Market, and he obsessively polishes his guns with an oil-stained rag in a battle against sand and grit. But few passersby show interest. Once one of the most bustling, bristling arms bazaars in the world, the Mogadishu weapons market is weathering a down cycle, with business a mere fraction of what it was in the days when warlords settled internecine grudges in the city's streets. Mohammed's average daily sales have dropped from 15 AKs to just three--and prices have fallen by almost half, to $300. "The only good job was selling guns," says Mohammed, 24. "Now I don't know what I'll do."
In most strife-torn parts of the world, a bear market for weapons would be cause for relief. But tranquillity rarely lasts long in Somalia. Since the overthrow of dictator Mohammed Siad Barre in 1991, the country has been a byword for dysfunction, less a nation-state than a destitute, unremittingly violent land ruled by the barrel of a gun. Last June the warlords' grip on power was finally broken by a dedicated confederacy of fundamentalist Muslim militias that fought their way into the former capital and sent the warlords fleeing.
Since then, the Muslim militias, which call themselves the Islamic Courts Union (ICU), have consolidated their claim to Mogadishu and expanded their control to include most of Somalia, particularly the fertile lands and strategic ports in the country's south. Meanwhile, the U.N.-backed transitional government is unraveling. Confined to the squalid town of Baidoa near the Ethiopian border, the government is dependent on foreign money and security and crippled by internal dissent and mass resignations.
The fear is that Somalia, a country with nearly 9 million Muslims and one that the U.S. has long suspected is a haven for al-Qaeda, may fall further into the hands of Islamic fundamentalists sympathetic to terrorist organizations. A report by the U.N.-chartered watchdog group on Somalia, which was submitted to the U.N Security Council last week, says the ICU has developed extensive ties with groups and states steeped in terrorism.
The report states that the ICU sent "approximately a 720-person-strong military force to Lebanon to fight alongside Hizballah against the Israeli military" during this summer's monthlong war. In exchange, Hizballah's leadership "has made arrangements" for governments like Iran's and Syria's to contribute arms and supplies to the ICU. And senior leaders within the ICU, including co-leader Sheik Hassan Dahir Aweys, allegedly have direct ties to al-Itihaad al-Islamiya, a radical group suspected of links to al-Qaeda.
Leaders of the ICU deny such allegations, but it's telling that they don't seem particularly bothered by them. "We believe the war against terrorism is a war against Islam," says the hard-line ICU national security chairman, Sheik Yusuf Indahaadde. "Those who are making trouble are not based here." Then, in English, the sheik adds forcefully, "Bush is the mother and father of terrorism."
And yet, in spite of the Islamists' disreputable allies, many Somalis cannot remember a time when they felt safer. For Americans, the single, searing image of Somalia was formed in October 1993, after two U.S. Black Hawk helicopters--part of a U.S. mission to provide humanitarian relief and restore order--were felled by militias loyal to warlord Mohammed Farrah Aidid. Eighteen U.S. special forces were killed, and the world community's involvement in Somalia effectively ended. What followed was a decade and a half of intermittent war that reduced Mogadishu to rubble. Along the "green line," the architectural gem of the former Italian colony that bore the brunt of the warlords' reign, the once proud edifice of the National Bank is obliterated, and only a stone shard remains of the cathedral's twin bell towers.
But over the past few months, there have been glimpses of progress. In the clearings between bullet-pocked buildings and along the city's broad, leafy avenues, children play soccer and a decade's worth of trash is slowly being hauled away. Extortionate militia checkpoints and roving bands of technicals--pickups mounted with heavy artillery and carrying armed thugs--have been replaced by disciplined Islamic troops. The city's ports have reopened, buses travel the roads by day, and Somali families stroll the sidewalks by night. Barring the notable exceptions of a Swedish journalist and an Italian nun who were recently murdered, there's no denying Mogadishu's new semblance of order. "This is an area of the world that we would obviously like to see stable, and [the Islamists] are doing that to some extent," says a Western diplomat. "So if what you see is what you get, then maybe it isn't the worst thing in the world."
The Islamists who control the city occupy a whitewashed compound in Mogadishu. They are eager to present their domination as a fait accompli. "We are ready to be a nation," says Foreign Minister Ibrahim Hassan Addou. "We want Somalia to be peaceful, and we want to establish good relations with the rest of the world." With both hands, he beckons toward the open window in his office. "Feel free to look around," he says. "You can go where you want to go and see what you want to see."
Well, not quite. The Islamists have instituted Taliban-style rules banning drinking, cinemas, dancing and women swimming, as well as curbing the press. Sheik Sharif Sheik Ahmed, the ICU's co-leader, insists these restraints are the product of spontaneous acts of piety by the public. "We don't have any rules issuing from the Islamic Courts to stop any of this," he insists. "The people are doing this by themselves without intervention by us." That seems open to dispute. Just last week, after protests erupted over the shortage of khat, the seemingly ubiquitous narcotic chewed in Somalia, the Islamists ordered a ban on the drug. It's unlikely to go over well. "It's good to stop hashish and harder things," says a man at a khat stall in Mogadishu, "but cigarettes and beer? There will be a day when people say, Wait, they have gone too far. I am sure of it."
The Islamists' takeover is a parable of the unintended consequences of the U.S.'s war on terrorism. After Sept. 11, the U.S. intelligence community, acting on concerns that Somalia's lawlessness could be exploited by al-Qaeda, initiated the Alliance for the Restoration of Peace and Counterterrorism, a covert program that funneled aid to warlords in return for their assistance in capturing suspected terrorists.

</file>

<file= AmE06_A21>

State Rep. Edward Acevedo's brother has been sitting at home for two years, living on disability pay because he says he hurt his back trying to remove a pipe while working for the city water department.

His doctor said he could go back to work last January, though in a less physically demanding job.

But Joseph Acevedo Jr. is still off -- and still collecting $3,600 a month from taxpayers -- because the city hasn't found him a new job.

"I can't go back to the same job. I'm just waiting for a job to open up,'' Acevedo told a reporter before slamming the door of his Southwest Side apartment.

Acevedo, 53, is among dozens of workers collecting disability payments from the city for months -- sometimes years -- after doctors cleared them to return to work in less-strenuous jobs, a Chicago Sun-Times investigation has found. City Hall estimates 91 employees remain on disability after getting medical clearance to go back to work.

Who are they? The city won't say.

But the Sun-Times obtained a list of the water department's injured workers who've been deemed able to return to work. Beside Acevedo, the list also contains the son of a retired judge, the son of a union leader and members of political groups, including the Hispanic Democratic Organization created by Mayor Daley.

How much does it cost taxpayers to send disability checks to those 91 employees? The city won't answer that, either.

If, like Acevedo, each worker gets $3,600 a month -- about $43,000 a year -- taxpayers would be paying about $3.9 million a year to keep them home when they could be back at work. City workers on disability leave get 75 percent of their pay -- 66.6 percent from the city, the rest from city pension funds. All of it tax-free.

Finding new jobs for injured workers isn't easy, city officials said. Anti-patronage rulings, union rules and equal-employment laws make it "complicated'' to place injured workers in other jobs, in their view.

They said they couldn't say how many injured workers have been given a "new assignment that suits their abilities" -- one of the goals stated on the Web site for the Mayor's Office of Budget and Management.

But Joseph Spingola, an attorney who has filed hundreds of workers compensation cases for city employees, has a good idea.

"It doesn't happen,'' Spingola said.

He and other lawyers for city workers criticized the Daley administration and the City Council Finance Committee -- which has sole jurisdiction over workers comp cases -- for not getting employees back to work.

"If you talk to the people at the city, they'll tell you, 'We've got budget restraints, we've got union restraints, we've got political restraints,' '' Spingola said. "I can take a budget and find you how many inspector jobs, but damned if any of my clients can get one of those jobs. I've got people who've been off work a long time and would like to go back. But the city can't find them a job.

"There are always openings. There are always retirements,'' Spingola said. "But I've got a 37-year-old with 16 years in, and they've got nothing for him. Why should they put him out to pasture? They just keep paying him'' to stay home.

Off work for seven years

Gregory Green, the son of retired Cook County Circuit Judge Albert Green, is among 84 workers on disability leave from the water department. Green and 33 others have reached "maximum medical improvement" -- meaning they're able to return to work, though perhaps in a different job because of their injuries, according to the records obtained by the Sun-Times.

Green, a bricklayer, has been off work since reporting he hurt his left thumb and hand while breaking a brick with a hammer in August 1999. He had five surgeries, according to his lawyer, but, by January 2002, his doctor said Green could return to work, though not as a bricklayer.

Four and a half years later, the city hasn't found Green another job.

And Green, 49, hasn't complained. He's still cashing the $42,000 in disability checks he gets each year -- more than $315,000 since 1999 -- while his workers comp claim against the city languishes.

"He has been paid,'' said Green's attorney, Kenneth Wolfe. "That's why we haven't rocked the boat harder in the past."

But now Green is pushing the city for a new job.

"He's found out that certain pension rights that he thought his new wife would retain, she would not retain unless he gets back to work,'' Wolfe said. "We've been pressing the city to try to find another city job. If he were to die, she would get nothing at this point. Apparently, that would be rectified if he got back to work with the city.''

Green has 28 years of service with the city -- including seven on disability.

He has had two other workers comp claims against the city -- getting $11,567 for an injury to his right ring finger in 1989 and more than $60,000 after he hurt his right shoulder in 1994, state records show.

'Complicated' to find new jobs

Even with 35,000 jobs, it's "complicated" for the City of Chicago to find new jobs for workers who've been injured, according to Jennifer Hoyle, a spokeswoman for the city Law Department.

If the city transferred injured workers into vacant jobs without having them compete with other candidates, that would violate the federal Shakman decree that forbids most patronage hiring, Hoyle said.

Also, Hoyle said, union contracts make it tough to transfer, say, an injured garbage man to a clerical job -- a post represented by a different union.

And injured workers can't have their pay cut, even if they are retrained for a normally lower-paying job, she said. But moving that garbage man to work alongside a female clerk who's paid substantially less and not cutting his pay could violate federal laws that mandate equal pay for equal work, Hoyle said.

Michael Shakman, the lawyer who won the federal court order banning most patronage hiring, disputed Hoyle's contention that the city would violate the decree by moving injured workers into vacant jobs without competition.

"The Shakman decree doesn't bar the city from giving someone a job because he's recovered from an injury," Shakman said.

Many have connections

Finding something for injured workers to do is important, experts say.

"Even if they can't do their previous job, or can only do it with restrictions, you want to get those people back to work,'' said Greg Krohm, executive director of the International Association of Industrial Accident Boards and Commissions in Madison, Wis., and formerly administrator of the Wisconsin workers compensation program.

"You don't want to let those people stay home and watch TV or work in the garden. You don't want a person to think of themselves as disabled. It creates a disability.''

At the water department, the list of workers deemed able to return to work -- but who remain at home -- includes several with political connections:

- Joseph Acevedo Jr., the legislator's brother whose 2004 injury claim was his third since he was hired eight years ago. He settled one case for $12,272; the others are pending.

- Thomas Flisk, a laborer and son of Theodore Flisk, vice president of Laborers Union Local 1092, which represents water department workers. On disability more than two years, Flisk might be recovered from elbow injuries suffered while operating a jackhammer, but he could still need wrist surgery, his lawyer said. In 12 years, Flisk, 37, has filed four workers comp cases. He has settled three, for $111,453.

- Joseph Furio, a laborer whose sponsor is the city's First Ward Regular Democratic Organization, according to the clout list. Furio, 32, has been off work for more than two years, since he reported hurting his neck while lifting a bag of cement off a truck.

- William G. Parker, 46, a laborer who was once a precinct captain for Ald. Dick Mell's 33rd Ward Regular Democratic Organization. Parker started working for the city in December 1998. He has been off since June 2001, when he reported injuring his right shoulder while unloading a bag of cement.

- Timothy Peek, a laborer also sponsored by Mell's organization, according to the clout list. Peek, 40, has been out more than two years, since he reported twisting his back while trying to unhook a bungee cord -- his fifth claim in 10 years. He settled the other four for $58,625, state records show.

'BUY ME OUT'

"You're paying me to stay home -- pay me to pick up mail and answer the phones, or train me to do something else," said Anthony M. Scarpelli Jr., a cement mixer for the city. "There's no reason the taxpayers should have to pay me not to go to work."

Scarpelli, 37, has been off work since July 2004, after he said he bumped his head on a stairway and fell, fracturing two discs in his neck. At the time, he was doing clerical work for the city's Law Department -- a light-duty assignment he got after a 2001 accident when he was operating a snowplow that flipped over, pinning him underneath, causing nerve damage to his arm.

Scarpelli said doctors told him last March that he could return on light duty, but the city hasn't found him a job. He gets about $1,500 in disability checks every two weeks.

The clout list shows an Anthony Scarpelli sought a city job in 1994 with help from Terry Teele, a former Daley aide. Scarpelli said he's not sure if that's him or his father, also a city worker on disability leave.

Scarpelli, a cousin of the late mobster Gerald Scarpelli, said he also helped run a patronage army for Carmen Iacullo and Anthony Pucillo, two former transportation department officials.

"I want to come back to work," said Scarpelli, who settled four previous cases for $28,000. "Ninety-nine percent of the people don't want to go back to work.''

And if the city can't find him a job, Scarpelli said, they should "buy me out.";

Coaches spend countless hours in dark rooms watching film in an attempt to eliminate the unknown, and given the intense scrutiny they are under, that's understandable. They fear situations they can't anticipate. They never want to appear indecisive because indecisiveness fuels criticism that can -- and often does -- get them fired.

As a result, the Amish are less resistant to change.

That's why the firestorm of criticism by coaches regarding rule changes intended to shorten games was as predictable as it was immediate.

Rules 3-2-5 and 3-2-5-e are a sincere attempt by the NCAA Football Rules Committee to reduce the length of games that have become progressively longer in recent years. The first mandates that the clock start on a kickoff when the kicker's foot touches the ball instead of when the receiving team touches it. The second requires that officials start the clock after a change of possession when the ball is deemed ready for play instead of when it is snapped.

Texas coach Mack Brown loathes the new rules. Florida's Urban Meyer pledged to campaign against them. Texas Tech's Mike Leach called them the ''stupidest rule[s] to come out in a significantly long period of time.'' Several Big Ten coaches have joined the chorus.

Expect that criticism to intensify as the Big Ten and other leagues open conference play and games become more meaningful, even if the logic behind many of the complaints remains elusive. Can someone please explain how shaving a few plays off a game is the end of college football as we know it?

Games are averaging 13 fewer plays and are being played in 17 fewer minutes, which means the rules are having the desired impact. Critics overlook an essential point: The rule is the same for both teams. There's no advantage either way.

''It's a horrible rule,'' Purdue coach Joe Tiller has said.;

</file>

<file= AmE06_A22>

A nonprofit group has filed a complaint asking the Internal Revenue Service to investigate the role that two churches may have played in the re-election campaign of Kansas' attorney general. 
The complaint by Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington, a nonpartisan legal watchdog organization, cited a memorandum from the attorney general, Phill Kline, a Republican, directing members of his campaign staff to recruit churches to distribute campaign literature and serve as the sites for events. 
''This is the top law enforcement official in the state who is encouraging everyone to break the law,'' said Melanie Sloan, executive director of the watchdog group. ''He's either abysmally unfamiliar with the law, or he's deliberately violating it.'' 
A spokeswoman for Mr. Kline, Sherriene Jones, did not return calls to her office. 
In his memorandum, Mr. Kline identified two Topeka churches, the Light of the World Christian Center and the Wanamaker Woods Church of the Nazarene, which he said had participated in ''lit drops'' by handing out campaign literature. A woman who answered the telephone at Wanamaker Woods Church said the church had no comment. 
The Rev. Greg Varney, pastor of Light of the World Christian Center, issued a statement saying that Mr. Kline had preached at the church on July 9, but insisting that no illegal activity had occurred. ''At no time here at our church did Phill bring up politics, re-election or campaign contributions,'' the statement said. 
Mark W. Everson, the commissioner of the I.R.S., has repeatedly warned that the agency will crack down on religious organizations that violate laws barring charities of any type from involvement in partisan political activities. 
This election cycle, additional accusations of such violations have been made against religious organizations in California, Minnesota, Missouri and Ohio. 
Whether the I.R.S. has responded to those complaints is unknown; the agency is barred by law from disclosing its investigations. 
All Saints Church, an Episcopal congregation in Pasadena, Calif., has said it was under investigation, but no other church named in complaints that have become public has acknowledged an I.R.S. inquiry. 
Despite a report last year by the Treasury Department's inspector general that concluded political considerations had played no role in the I.R.S.'s selection of nonprofit groups for review, the agency's silence regarding its investigations has led to accusations of political bias. 
''From what we know, the I.R.S. has gone after liberal organizations primarily, the N.A.A.C.P. and the liberal church in California,'' Ms. Sloan said, referring to the inquiry into All Saints Church. An I.R.S. investigation of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People was closed with no finding of wrongdoing. 
''Clearly, there are violations on the conservative side, and no action appears to be taken.'' Ms. Sloan said. ''If they're being even-handed,'' she added, ''I certainly can't tell.'' 
Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington also filed a complaint with the I.R.S. last week against the Living Word Christian Center in Brooklyn Park, Minn., accusing its senior pastor of violating the law by openly stating his support for a Congressional candidate. 
''We can't publicly endorse as a church, and would not for any candidate,'' the senior pastor, the Rev. Mac Hammond, told his congregation during a service on Oct. 14 as he introduced Michele Bachmann, a Republican state senator who is running for a seat in the United States House of Representatives. ''But I can tell you personally that I'm going to vote for Michele Bachmann,'' he said. 
During her remarks that followed, Ms. Bachmann said that she had been called by God to run for the House seat after three days of fasting and praying with her husband. 
The Star Tribune in Minneapolis later reported that Mr. Hammond could not vote for Ms. Bachmann because he does not live in her district. 
Mr. Hammond did not respond to messages seeking comment. 
The Star Tribune quoted Mr. Hammond as saying he had ''learned my lesson.'' 

There have been 34 school shootings in the United States in the last 10 years, resulting in the deaths of 54 students and 14 teachers, administrators and others, according to a timeline on www.infoplease.com . 
None in New Jersey. 
But in Hawthorne last month, prosecutors determined that an oral threat by a 16-year-old student to shoot his principal, vice principal and fellow students at Hawthorne High School, and to blow up the school, was sufficiently serious to file criminal charges against the teenager. 
There was no evidence that the boy meant to carry out the threat, which was uttered on Sept. 22 after the principal and vice principal intervened in an argument the boy was having with another student, said Michael O'Shea, Passaic County's chief assistant prosecutor. 
The youth, a junior, was suspended pending the outcome of a psychiatric evaluation and is being home-schooled, Mr. O'Shea said. If found to be delinquent -- guilty, in juvenile court parlance -- he could be compelled to undergo counseling, placed in his parents' custody or held for up to two years in a juvenile jail. 
The incident, which was not publicized by officials, was reported last week by The Record. The boy's name was withheld because he is a juvenile. 
''Apparently, it was an emotional outburst,'' said Mr. O'Shea, who noted that it occurred before the shootings last Monday at an Amish schoolhouse in Pennsylvania and other recent incidents in Wisconsin and Colorado, and was not a copycat case. 
''However, in this day and age,'' Mr. O'Shea said, ''schools and police must respond with extreme caution, and that's what they did.'' 
The letter said the priest wanted a change of scene ''for family and health reasons.'' 
In September, after protests over the case in front of the Mexico City cathedral that drew national attention, Cardinal Rivera Carrera read a statement urging Father Aguilar to turn himself in, ''for the good of his own conscience and to avoid more damage to the church.'' 
In the United States, Father Aguilar served under Cardinal Mahony in Los Angeles. Through a spokesman, Cardinal Mahony, who is named in the civil case, said his office reported Father Aguilar's abuse of two altar boys to the authorities in January 1988. 
The spokesman, Tod Tamberg, said the principal of the church school left a message on an answering machine at the office of child protective services on the afternoon of Jan. 8 of that year; Father Aguilar left the country the next day. 
The Los Angeles police say the vicar for clergy, Msgr. Thomas Curry, tipped off the priest on the morning of Jan. 9 that he would be investigated, two days before their detectives were informed. Father Aguilar slipped across the border that night. 
Mr. Tamberg confirmed that Monsignor Curry had confronted Father Aguilar with the accusations against him that morning and stripped him of ministry duty. The priest told Monsignor Curry he was going to stay with relatives in Los Angeles during the investigation, but he fled the country instead, Mr. Tamberg said. 
''Our school officials acted appropriately,'' he said, ''and so did church officials, to remove this guy from the ministry.'' In the next nine years the parents of at least five boys in Mexico have formally accused Father Aguilar of sexual abuse or rape as he continued to work in parishes. 
''The frustration is unbelievable,'' said Detective Federico Sicard, the Los Angeles investigator who has been seeking Father Aguilar for 18 years. He added: ''When things like this happen we fail them. The justice system failed these kids.'' 
Father Aguilar's troubled private life first came to light in 1987 in Cuacnopalan, a dusty farming town where he headed a parish for more than a decade. 
Many older parishioners still defended Father Aguilar as the best priest they ever had. But there were also hushed reports among some parents that the priest had molested and fondled boys in the congregation, and at least one youngster, who died of complications from AIDS in 1996, told friends that he had complained to the diocese, town officials and residents said. 
''There were a lot of comments about his relationships with the boys, that he had problems with the youngsters,'' Melquiades Alcantara, 61, recalled. Cardinal Rivera Carrera, who was then the bishop of the Tehuacan Diocese, did not mount an inquiry. He told La Prensa that an attack on Father Aguilar -- along with persistent rumors about his homosexuality, not pedophilia -- had persuaded him to ship the priest off to Los Angeles in early 1988. 
After Father Aguilar was in Los Angeles nine months, two altar boys complained that on several occasions he had lured them into his residence and fondled them. 
Three months after the case was reported to the authorities, a grand jury indicted Father Aguilar on 19 counts of lewd acts upon a child, involving 10 children. But by then he had fled back to Mexico. The Los Angeles authorities immediately sought to have him indicted in Mexico and extradited to California. 
It took seven years for the Mexican attorney general's office to issue an arrest warrant, Detective Sicard said. Three months after it did, the statute of limitations on the sex abuse charges ran out. 
The priest was never arrested, but allegations of new abuses hounded him. In the early 1990's he served as the associate pastor at two churches in Mexico City. Joaquin Aguilar Mendez, who brought the suit in Los Angeles in September, was an altar boy at both. Mr. Aguilar Mendez says FatherAguilar brutally raped him in October 1994 inside a rectory after he had misbehaved at Mass. He was 13. 
Lawyers for Mr. Aguilar Mendez say he and his parents reported the rape to the police three weeks later. The police did three rape tests and told them that they had lost the results all three times, the lawsuit claims. 
A prosecutor, the lawyers allege, offered the parents a bribe to drop the charges. The parents refused, but the complaint never resulted in a trial, Mr. Aguilar Mendez said. 
In late 1995 or early 1996, Father Aguilar returned to Tehuacan, where he was assigned to the small San Vicente Ferrer church, clergymen there said. Within a year his parishioners were once again leveling charges of child molestation. 
Four mothers filed charges of sexual abuse with the local prosecutor, though other mothers said the number of victims was far higher. Cecilia Flores said her son was only 10 when the priest tried to put his hand down the boy's shorts. ''How many injustices has this priest committed?'' Mrs. Flores asked. 
That investigation dragged on for six years. The state judge handling the charges, Carlos Guillermo Ramirez, has never issued an arrest warrant in three of the cases and ruled out rape charges in all of them. 
Even as the investigation was proceeding, Archbishop Rosendo Huesca Pacheco of Puebla, just 71 miles away, gave Father Aguilar permission in 2001 to serve as an assistant priest in another village. ''We didn't know there were charges against him,'' said an official in the Puebla archdiocese, the Rev. Amador Tapia. 
In 2002 a state tribunal in Puebla finally ordered that the priest be arrested for the ''corruption of minors.'' Father Aguilar appealed to a federal judge, who canceled the arrest warrant because the statute of limitations had expired. 
In 2003 Judge Ramirez found Father Aguilar guilty of a lesser charge of touching the genitals of one boy, but acquitted him of the top charge of corruption of minors. He sentenced the priest to one year in prison and a $765 fine, according to court papers. 
Father Aguilar was allowed to pay a slightly larger fine to avoid prison and disappeared once again. 
In recent months he has been seen saying Mass in tiny towns in the states of Puebla and Morelos. The Tehuacan diocese has never defrocked him. 
Photo: Joaquin Aguilar Mendez, right, a former altar boy, has sued the Rev. Nicolas Aguilar, shown in photo at left. (Photo by Tomas Bravo/Reuters) 
Map of Mexico highlighting Tehuacan: In the Tehuacan area, there were complaints about Father Aguilar.

</file>

<file= AmE06_A23>

ALBANY, Feb. 27 -- Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton took a swipe at the White House on Monday, saying that Karl Rove, the president's political adviser, ''spends a lot of time obsessing about me.'' 
Mrs. Clinton's comments came during an interview with an Albany radio station, after she was asked about a new book that quotes Mr. Rove as saying she is certain to be the Democratic presidential candidate in 2008. 
''I don't know where he gets his information from,'' Mrs. Clinton said of Mr. Rove during the interview on WROW-AM. ''If I were thinking about this, I'd say, 'Why are they spending so much time talking about me?' '' 
In ''Strategery,'' a book released on Monday by Bill Sammon, a White House reporter for The Washington Examiner, Mr. Rove is quoted as calling Mrs. Clinton ''the dominant player on their side of the slate.'' 
''Anybody who thinks that she's not going to be the candidate is kidding themselves,'' Mr. Rove is quoted as saying in the book. Mr. Rove is also quoted saying that he believes Mrs. Clinton would have a tough time in the general elections because of a ''brittleness about her.'' 
When pressed to add more about her strategy and future, Mrs. Clinton demurred, saying that she was focusing on winning re-election this fall. 
Republicans, Mrs. Clinton said, are hoping ''that all of their missteps, which are now numbering in the hundreds, are going to somehow be overlooked because people, instead of focusing on the '06 election, will jump ahead and think about the next one,'' she said during the radio interview. 
A spokeswoman for the Republican National Committee, Tracey Schmitt, said, ''Senator Clinton would be better served if she spent less time flattering herself with perceived obsession and more time focusing on her job.'' 
Mr. Rove has reportedly spent some time courting possible challengers to Mrs. Clinton. Last fall, Edward F. Cox, who was considering a bid to run against Mrs. Clinton, said that he had received an e-mail from Mr. Rove saying that ''we have to do something about her,'' referring to Mrs. Clinton. 
Mr. Cox, a lawyer who is married to Tricia Nixon, later decided not to challenge Mrs. Clinton. 
Earlier this month, John Spencer, the former mayor of Yonkers and the only declared Republican candidate for the Senate, said he had met with Mr. Rove's aides at the White House. 
Later on Monday, as Mrs. Clinton spoke to hundreds of municipal officials gathering for a conference in Albany, the senator zeroed in on local issues like economic development and the declining populations in upstate New York. She continued to assail the Bush administration's proposal to allow a Dubai company to take over operations at six American ports. 
''I want to keep focused on what's actually going on,'' she said. ''We have a lot of serious problems right now.'' 

NEW York politics has a way of veering toward the unpredictable, to the dismay of many a politician. Just when he thought he'd sail into office as the state's next governor, Attorney General Eliot Spitzer finds himself beating back a fellow Democrat who is way behind him in money and recognition -- but who can make Mr. Spitzer's life uncomfortable anyway. 
And New York City's business establishment, already hunting for an alternative to the familiar Democrats lining up to take back City Hall, has found a dream candidate: the chairman of Time Warner, Richard D. Parsons. He says he's not interested. Which deters his fans not one bit. 
A headache for the politicians, but fun for everyone else. After all, what is politics without a good fight? 
Mr. Spitzer's challenger, Thomas R. Suozzi, left no doubt that he is ready for one when he declared his pursuit of the Democratic nomination on Saturday, in a windswept parking lot near the center of his hometown, Glen Cove. 
The Nassau County executive, Mr. Suozzi has politics that are more in sync with moderate Republicans than with the liberals who dominate Democratic primaries. But a happy maverick, he is trying to make a virtue of being the underdog, while painting Mr. Spitzer as the insider in a dysfunctional Albany. 
Not an easy task, challenging Mr. Spitzer, who is nationally known for taming Wall Street with his prosecutions and has broad party support. And Mr. Suozzi, 43, has to resolve some inconsistencies: even as he denounces the influence of Albany lobbyists, he has not said if he would refuse contributions from lobbyists. And though the self-appointed outsider, he is accepting donations from well-heeled businessmen who have been sued by Mr. Spitzer's office. 
But the Nassau executive, amiable and popular in his county, stands in contrast to the fierce, coldly determined Mr. Spitzer, who has in fact chosen to focus on high-profile white collar crime rather than dueling with Albany's power structure over government reform or Medicaid waste. 
So, if nothing else, Mr. Suozzi's candidacy will force the front-runner to run for his nomination this fall. 
THE next mayor's race is four years away, but already some New Yorkers are worried about Michael R. Bloomberg's successor and are looking for a candidate with business acumen and independence from traditional special interests. Therefore, the frequent mentions in some quarters of Mr. Parsons, who is black and Republican, was born in Bedford-Stuyvesant and reared in South Jamaica, and, at 57, has been active in public life since he was Nelson A. Rockefeller's prodigy. 
Among those mentioning Mr. Parsons is Rupert Murdoch, chairman of the News Corporation, which owns The New York Post. At a lunch honoring Mr. Parsons last fall, Mr. Murdoch said he hoped they might be honoring Mr. Parsons again ''in November of 2009, but this time on the steps of City Hall.'' 
Since Mr. Murdoch is never reserved about communicating his strong political likes and dislikes in The Post -- a practice widely credited with catapulting Edward I. Koch into City Hall in 1977 -- his comments intrigued many of the communication executives who heard them, and they continue to echo. 
Asked about the Murdoch remarks, his press representative, Howard J. Rubenstein, said that Mr. Murdoch told him last week that he was ''quite serious,'' and thought Mr. Parsons would be ''a great public official.'' 
Aides to Mr. Bloomberg said that the mayor thought highly of Mr. Parsons, too, and approved of government outsiders serving on the inside. 
A quiet long-distance runner who has not nurtured a public profile, Mr. Parsons has impressed the business community by holding Time Warner together. He most recently beat back a challenge from investment banker Bruce Wasserstein and the financier Carl C. Icahn to break up the company. 
Mr. Parsons has to focus on raising Time Warner's stock prices for the next two or three years, when his heir apparent, Jeffrey L. Bewkes, the company's president and chief operating officer, is expected to take over -- and when New York will be starting to think about its next mayor. 
Edward I. Adler, a spokesman for Time Warner, said that Mr. Parsons ''is 100 percent focused on moving Time Warner forward. The talk is flattering, but he is not running for mayor.'' 
Mr. Parsons has to take that stance for now, say his political advocates -- undaunted, of course, this being New York. 

McKINNEY, Texas, Feb. 25 -- A judge declared a mistrial Saturday in the murder trial of a woman accused of cutting the arms off her 10-month-old daughter. 
Jurors deadlocked in the fourth day of deliberations in the case of the woman, Dena Schlosser, who pleaded not guilty by reason of insanity. 
The police arrested Ms. Schlosser, now 37, in November 2004 after finding her baby, Margaret, known as Maggie, dying in her crib, and Ms. Schlosser covered in blood, holding a knife and listening to a hymn. 
The prosecution argued that she knew what she was doing, showing the jury grisly photos of the baby and emphasizing several witnesses' observations of Ms. Schlosser as a healthy, seemingly sane mother. 
One psychiatrist testifying for the defense said Ms. Schlosser had told him that she felt commanded by God to cut off Maggie's arms, followed by her own limbs and head. 
John Schlosser, her husband, has filed for divorce and has custody of their other two children. 

''It's the right thing,'' said Leslee Unruh, leader of the National Abstinence Clearinghouse. ''It's like Martin Luther King's approach -- it's never the wrong time to do what's right. South Dakota is in a unique position to do something for the 800 children aborted every year.'' 
But these opponents are also counting on the retirement of Justice John Paul Stevens and the appointment by President Bush of another justice amenable to overturning Roe -- all uncertain calculations, Mr. McConchie said. Think of what damage may be done, he said, if the court hears the case, but reaffirms Roe. And, should their forces devote money to this strategy, he asked, over all other efforts? 
In some ways, the split mirrors the rift among gay-rights advocates over the question of same-sex marriage. Some gay-rights advocates pressed for marriage as the ultimate goal, while others warned that a slower approach, seeking other legal rights for gay couples, for instance, might stir less fury and be more effective. 
As it turned out, after the Massachusetts Supreme Court legalized gay marriage in 2003, the reverberations were fierce. Opponents campaigned in many states for constitutional amendments to bar gay marriage, and in 2004, 11 states passed such amendments. 
But even as the anti-abortion forces wrestled with internal division, abortion-rights leaders were repeating their mantra that a challenge to Roe would awaken their complacent supporters and strengthen their side of the national debate. 
Representatives from groups like Planned Parenthood Federation of America and Naral Pro-Choice America said they were receiving hundreds of calls and e-mail messages from people around the country. 
But a full-fledged national fight over the right to abortion must also be a chilling prospect for abortion-rights advocates. 
The legal costs of fighting the South Dakota law in court -- as Planned Parenthood has already pledged to do -- are certain to be steep, but there could soon be more states with similar laws to fight. Kentucky and Ohio have already considered such measures, and other states might well be emboldened by South Dakota. 
''It sounds a very dire signal that states think that they can pass laws that ban abortions and have them upheld by the newly configured Supreme Court,'' said Eve C. Gartner, a lawyer for Planned Parenthood. 
And if, in the end, the Supreme Court were to overturn Roe, the ensuing battle for abortion-rights advocates would be complicated and costly, too. 
Separate campaigns would be needed in every state, and even then, some would surely be lost -- particularly those in states that already have so-called trigger laws on their books that would make most abortions illegal as soon as Roe is overturned. They include Arkansas, Illinois, Kentucky, Louisiana, Missouri, Montana and South Dakota. 
A sense of building momentum -- the hints of a more conservative Supreme Court, the loud statement from at least one state legislature, the prospect of a long court fight -- could help build steam for abortion opponents. Just as those opposed to gay marriage seemed to draw strength and rising support from their early election victories, those opposed to abortion may see the new political climate as a call to action. 
In South Dakota, Gov. Mike Rounds, a Republican who said he is inclined to sign the abortion ban in the coming weeks and send it on to face a lengthy court challenge, acknowledged that it might, at least for this moment, energize some otherwise dormant abortion-rights supporters. 
On the other hand, he said, it will also most likely energize another silent group: those at the opposite end of the spectrum, a frustrated segment that had given up on overturning Roe in the blur of passing decades. 
''Only time will tell,'' the governor said.

</file>

<file= AmE06_A24>

For fireworks fans who aren't into do-it-yourself displays, Westfield Brandon is offering a chance to watch the professionals do it.

The mall will host Brandon Blast on Tuesday, a July Fourth celebration that includes a 9 p.m. fireworks display in partnership with the Greater Brandon Chamber of Commerce.

"Theis the third year for the Brandon Blast," said Taylor Clifton, marketing director for Westfield Brandon. "The chamber hosted it for the last two years, and we're really excited to take over the event and continue this great tradition."

The event kicks off at 4 p.m. with a children's patriotic parade inside the mall. The Summer Kids Club will be held at Westfield Playtown near the Sears store, with face painters, balloon artists and youngsters painting a large patriotic mural.

A military salute will be staged near the Center Court entrance on the west side of the mall.

"We feel it's important every day, and especially on Independence Day, to recognize and appreciate all our military personnel," Clifton said.

With 84 percent of MacDill Air Force Base's personnel living in the Brandon area, she said a military appreciation at the mall is "a perfect fit."

The salute will be followed by performances by two bands, Weszt and Sweet Spot.

Vendors will be selling hamburgers, hot dogs and ice cream, and there will be a beer tent. Visitors with a valid military identification will receive free food and drinks.

Visitors also can go on rides, climb a rock-climbing wall, play in an inflatable jousting ring and maneuver through an obstacle course.

The fireworks display will be on the west side of the mall starting at 9 p.m.

Admission to the event is free, and free parking is available.

The Brandon News, News Channel 8, TBO.com and The Tampa Tribune are sponsors of Brandon Blast.; 

TALLAHASSEE - The e-mails and letters poured in from across the country last month. They came from boosters, alumni, teachers, businessmen, and of course, Seminole fans. Yes, even a few Gators fans shared their thoughts. All of the correspondence - 259 pages worth printed out - was sent to Florida State University president T.K. Wetherell's public e-mail account in October.

The topic? FSU coach Bobby Bowden's future.

Wetherell's mailbox overflowed on days following an FSU loss, and with the Seminoles losing three of four games in October - their only win came against Duke, which now owns the nation's longest losing streak at 16 games - those venting to the president's office had plenty of material to work with.

"We're not used to this," Bowden said Wednesday during his weekly conference call about FSU's 4-4 record, its worst entering the final month of the regular season since Bowden arrived in 1976. "A lot of people, naturally, [say], 'Oh, Bobby, we're so sorry this is happening.'"

Not everyone, though. When it was revealed last week that Palm Beach attorney Peter Mettler, a former board member of Seminole Boosters, Inc., recently wrote Wetherell and stated, "Coach Bowden should retire or be forced to retire," some in Seminole Nation labeled him a traitor.

However, based on a public-records request and subsequent review of the 259 pages of e-mails and letters by The Tampa Tribune, not only does Mettler have plenty of company who share his views, but also, his letter to Wetherell is one of the tamer ones.

Overall, about three-quarters of the correspondence asked Wetherell to either force Bowden to make changes on his coaching staff or to force the legendary coach to retire after this season.

Bowden, in his 31st season at the school, has consistently maintained he has no plans to do either. Wetherell continues to say Bowden can coach the Seminoles as long as he wants. Meanwhile, the e-mails and letters continue to pile up.; 

TAMPA - Florida Highway Patrol Trooper Brandon McElderry will spend 40 hours this week keeping an eye out for aggressive drivers as he patrols the area in an unmarked cruiser.

He said he will enjoy every minute of it.

This week, instead of working, McElderry was supposed to be a witness in the trial of Darian Maurice Wright.

Testifying meant reliving Jan. 5, 2005, the day he and Wright fought in the yard of a south Seminole Heights home. Wright bit McElderry's face. McElderry tore open Wright's nostril.

Then, Wright grabbed McElderry's .40-caliber Beretta handgun. It fired and McElderry was shot in the leg.

To avert a trial, Wright pleaded guilty last week to 13 felony and misdemeanor charges including attempted murder and aggravated assault of a law enforcement officer. He was sentenced to 23 years in prison followed by 10 years' probation. Wright must receive psychiatric treatment while on probation.

"It's good to see justice being served," McElderry told The Tampa Tribune on Monday.

McElderry said he had never been shot before and was unsure of the legal process. He said he was glad for the professionalism exhibited by the Tampa Police Department - who arrested Wright - as well as the state attorney's office. McElderry said his superiors were more than accommodating.

"The highway patrol, from the colonel on down, said to take the time I needed, not just for court but for my family," he said.

Just 28 days after his injury, McElderry returned to his patrol. He said he does not dwell on the shooting while performing his duties.

"Ninety-nine percent of people I deal with are good people," McElderry said. "They're just running late or accidentally cut somebody off.";

The Alonso High School swim team is close to practicing at the Westchase Swim and Tennis Center free of charge on weekday afternoons.

Westchase Community Association President Daryl Manning said the school district needs to provide Westchase with proof that the athletes are insured and that the coaches are certified lifeguards.

The arrangement was approved recently by the community association pending receipt of the documentation.

"We are enthusiastic about doing it," Manning said. "We want to move forward."

The high school wanted to use the pool last year, but Westchase refused, citing safety concerns.

The school uses the pool at the Northwest YMCA on Waters Avenue. Because of the YMCA's schedule, the team starts practice at 5 a.m.

"We're their guests, and we appreciate whatever times they give us," said Kent Glover, Alonso's athletic director. "But it's tough on the kids getting up so early."

Of the 27 members of the swim team, 22 are Westchase residents. Several of the team members are also part-time lifeguards at the Westchase pool. Because of that, allowing the team to use the pool makes sense, Manning said.

"It's almost a no-brainer," he said.;

TAMPA The old people's reaction amazes the kids. How, they ask, can they be so thrilled over such a small gift?

"They're just so happy someone came to see them," answers Richedean Hills-Ackbar, who started Caregiver's Helping Hand five years ago to accommodate both givers and recipients.

Throughout the year, the mostly teenage volunteers mow lawns, do minor repairs and paint houses for elderly low-income residents who have been cited for code violations.

On the first three Saturdays in December, they deliver gift baskets and sing holiday songs to hundreds of assisted living and nursing home residents in Hillsborough County. Hills-Ackbar hopes Tampa Tribune readers will help them play Santa again this year.

Last year, a Target store donated $100 toward the effort when employees read of the charity's request for gift basket items and money in the Tribune's Holiday Wish List column.

For the 12th year, the Tribune is inviting local charities and nonprofit agencies to publish their needs in the wish list, which will run from Thursday through Dec. 24 in BayLife (details, below left).

From baby bottles for teenage moms to business machines for a children's chorus, all sorts of things make the list, although priority is given to organizations that fill the most immediate needs of people and animals.

Donors don't always say how they learned of a charity's particular needs, so it's difficult to discern which gifts came as a result of the wish list.

Betsy Miller of the Children's Home Society Inc., which supports Joshua House - a home for abused and neglected children - believes the wish list may have inspired donations from companies the group hadn't solicited.

"We wondered how they knew about us," she says.

Sheryl Kershaw, spokeswoman for the Hillsborough County Foster Angel Program, which provides gifts for the county's foster children, says donations come from many sources. She adds, "The more publicity we have, the better it is."; 

EDITOR'S NOTE: Jim Sloan, east and south Hillsborough education reporter for The Tampa Tribune, died Sunday of an apparent heart attack. D'Ann White, a co-worker with Tribune affiliate The Brandon News, wrote about Jim in her column this week.
BRANDON - I had a lighthearted column ready to run this week when I received word Monday morning of Jim Sloan's death.

He had been working in his yard in Brandon on Sunday, probably relishing the manual labor after a hellish week covering the primary election.

I couldn't bring myself to run a humorous column, although no one appreciated a good laugh more than Jim. That's something we all agreed on Monday as I listened to the stories Brandon Tribune staff members shared as they gathered in the conference room at lunchtime.

In the next room, Jim's desk remained untouched, as if he would walk back in, sit down and start doing one of his cherished crossword puzzles at any moment. His wry sense of humor remained memorialized in classic Sloan quotes on index cards taped to a column in the middle of the newsroom.

The Trib had just switched to a new computer system, and Jim couldn't get the hang of not having to hit the quote key twice, so his supervisor had written a reminder and taped it next to his desk:

"I will only hit the quote key once. I will only hit the quote key once. I will only hit the quote key once. I will only hit the quote key ONE TIME."

I met Jim in 1986 when he moved here from Brainerd, Minn., to take the position as county commission reporter for the Tribune. I'd been covering the commission for Sunbelt Newspapers for a year, so I introduced him around, told him which commissioners' aides would be most forthcoming with information, which copy machines were most reliable and the best places to hide from commissioners and editors.

We spent many an hour laughing in the pressroom. But that was only after Jim had filed his stories. When he was writing, you could have ignited a bomb next to him and he wouldn't have heard you. He was all business.

Over the next 20 years our paths would occasionally cross as he moved on to become bureau chief in Brandon and then part of the special projects team at the Trib. I'd see him at events we were covering, or we would bump into one another at Home Depot.

A couple of years ago, Jim and I found ourselves sharing the same office on Robertson Street when he asked to return to the Brandon bureau as a reporter. He wanted to be closer to his wife, Peggy, and son, Carey.

A couple of days after he returned to Brandon, I heard a racket from the break room that sparked a distant memory. I went to investigate and, sure enough, the noise was Jim laughing uproariously at one of his own jokes. I hadn't realized until then how much I'd missed that sound.

I wasn't the only one who was fond of Jim's tendency to laugh at his own jokes. Several of his co-workers mentioned how it was his laugh, not the joke, that would cause everyone else to crack up.

"He would tell a stupid joke and then laugh, and everybody would laugh because he was laughing so hard," said reporter Liz Bleau.

"You couldn't have a bad day when he was around," reporter Yvette Hammett said.

</file>

<file= AmE06_A25>

This couple we know, married for quite a while, have a custom on their birthdays. They go to a nice restaurant, just the two of them. 
Poor devils. They've been going about it all wrong. What they should have been doing, they now realize, is use their birthdays as occasions to raise money, gobs of it, as much as their eager fists can hold. That's what birthdays are for. 
Who told them this? Why, another long-married couple, name of Clinton. 
For the former president and the junior senator from New York, the last few days have been devoted to piling up the dough, their birthdays used as a hook. They raised many, many millions at receptions, dinners and a Rolling Stones concert at the Beacon Theater on Sunday night. 
Bill Clinton's money, we are told, is destined for good deeds, like fighting AIDS and promoting religious tolerance (something, it seems, that only plenty of cash can do). Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton's money, about $1 million, is also destined for good deeds. Good for her, anyway. It will go to her re-election campaign. Apparently she needs every dime she can get her mitts on to fend off a challenger most New Yorkers have never heard of. 
By now, the Clintons feel entitled to the money. Not that a sense of entitlement is unique to them in politics. Hardly. 
It all but defines Albany, regardless of political party. It may explain why the state comptroller, Alan G. Hevesi, is in such hot water. Until he was caught, he thought nothing of having taxpayers pick up the heavy tab for his wife's chauffeur service. 
Now Gov. George E. Pataki has ordered an investigation, with an eye toward potentially removing Mr. Hevesi from office. Any number of outcomes are possible. But there is no harm in taking a look now at the largess taken for granted in Albany, not only by the comptroller but also by some who may decide his fate. 
Take Mr. Pataki. Not unlike the Clintons, he owes a great deal to exceedingly rich patrons. Thanks to them, he increased his family income considerably and bought real estate that would have otherwise been well beyond his means. 
His wife, Libby, wrote a children's book, then leaned on Republican groups to buy it in bulk. An assistant, whose salary was paid by the state's Republican Party, ran personal errands for her. Unlike Mr. Hevesi's situation, no taxpayer funds were involved. But it was not exactly how Republican donors thought their money would be used. 
The Hevesi case could go to the State Senate. Three years ago, at least 19 Republican senators took $150,000 from their campaign committees and handed the money to lawyers for a disgraced Senate colleague, Guy J. Velella, who spent about six months in jail. Did contributors to those senators' campaigns expect their dollars to be spent on a crooked politician? 
THE Senate is led by Joseph L. Bruno, whose impartiality is arguably already compromised because he has demanded Mr. Hevesi's resignation. Mr. Bruno's son Kenneth was for a time a lobbyist. Just whom did the younger Bruno lobby last year with -- mirabile dictu -- conspicuous success? Why, aides to his father. 
It could also be the State Assembly that gets the Hevesi matter. Its speaker is Sheldon Silver. Mr. Silver has routinely blocked changes in the state's tort laws. He also belongs to a Manhattan law firm with a penchant for personal-injury cases, the very types that could be affected if the laws were rewritten. And how much does Mr. Silver earn from this firm? He has steadfastly refused to say. 
Quite possibly, a new attorney general may be asked to investigate Mr. Hevesi. It could be Jeanine F. Pirro, she who signed false tax returns that sent her husband to jail, or Andrew M. Cuomo, he who was paid handsomely by a businessman once investigated by Mr. Cuomo when he was the federal housing secretary. Neither Ms. Pirro nor Mr. Cuomo has been charged with wrongdoing. Then again, neither has received a medal for high-mindedness. 
So who knows how Albany's engrained sense of entitlement will play itself out in the Hevesi affair? 
Even without the benefit of attending the Clintons' Rolling Stones concert, the comptroller has now absorbed the wisdom of the philosopher Mick Jagger: You can't always get what you want. 
''But if you try sometime,'' Mr. Jagger also said, ''you just might find, you get what you need.'' 
What you need -- and then some. Especially if you're an Albany politician or a Clinton with a birthday. 

Adama Bah's schoolmates were jubilant when she returned to 10th grade at Heritage High School in Manhattan in May 2005 after six weeks in a distant juvenile detention center. Her release put to rest the federal government's unexplained assertion that Adama, a popular 16-year-old who wore jeans under her Islamic garb, was a potential suicide bomber. 
But a year and a half later, with many of her friends planning proms and applying to college, Ms. Bah, now 18, was still wearing an electronic ankle bracelet and tethered to a 10 p.m. government curfew, restrictions that were conditions of her release. And she was still facing deportation to Guinea, where she has not lived since she was 2. 
Today, at a closed hearing in Manhattan's federal building, she will plead for political asylum from Guinea's entrenched practice of female genital mutilation, which has marked all the women in her extended family, including her mother. An immigration judge could decide her fate on the spot. 
''I'm worried about being sent back,'' Ms. Bah said on Tuesday in her first extended interview about the lasting consequences of a case that briefly became a cause celebre in the debate over government vigilance and the protection of individual liberties. ''I'm worried about being separated from my family. This is all I have left now -- what hasn't been taken.'' 
Officially, she and a 16-year-old Bangladeshi girl arrested in Queens the same day were detained solely because their childhood visas were no longer valid. That remains the only reason Ms. Bah is in deportation proceedings, and the sole legal basis for an order last year that released the other girl, Tashnuba Hayder, on the condition that she leave the country immediately. 
Even now, Ms. Bah says she has no idea whether her slight acquaintance with Ms. Hayder was what caused agents of the Federal Bureau of Investigation to hold her for questioning. Though a document provided by a federal agent at the time said the F.B.I. considered the girls ''an imminent threat'' to national security, it provided no evidence, and officials refused to discuss the matter. 
''Why me?'' she asked, before her volunteer lawyers warned that a judicial order limits what she can say about the experience. ''Nobody answers, why me?'' 
She has had little time to dwell on the question, however, because she has been struggling to replace her father as the family's primary breadwinner. Her father, a cabdriver who was arrested along with her and held on immigration violations, stayed in detention until his deportation last month. Her mother, illiterate and speaking little English, soon lost the family business, a trinket stand. 
But under the strictures of the government's curfew, Ms. Bah found she could not continue her education and at the same time earn enough to feed her four younger siblings, all American citizens. Last year, she dropped out of Heritage High, where teachers had praised her intellectual curiosity and generous spirit, and took up office work at Bellevue Hospital Center for $6.75 an hour. 
Her income fell far short of needs. And though a few community agencies tried to help with diapers for the youngest and trips to a food pantry, she said, the financial crisis deepened. In the end, it was an Islamic political activist in Maryland who came through, taking three of Ms. Bah's siblings into his home for the summer, and paying $500 a month toward household expenses so she could attend summer school and re-enroll in Heritage this fall. 
''We were looking for other options, but nothing was working out,'' Ms. Bah said. She added that she knew little about the politics of the activist, Mauri Saalakhan, 53, whom she met for the first time last fall when she and her mother stopped to pray at a downtown mosque after a session with lawyers at Hughes, Hubbard & Reed, which is handling her asylum case without fee. 
Her family's association with Mr. Saalakhan raised eyebrows this spring when he invited her to join spectators at the trial of a Pakistani immigrant accused -- and eventually convicted -- of plotting to blow up the Herald Square subway station in 2004. Ms. Bah, who was recognized by some reporters in the courtroom, said later that she went out of curiosity because people told her that the young man's case was like hers. It was not, she said, and when she realized that, she did not go back. 
Mainstream Islamic groups have looked askance at her family's link to Mr. Saalakhan, an African-American who often accuses such groups of timidity, and whose criticism of government policies dates to a youthful stint with the Black Panthers. But, she said, ''He's somebody who stepped up and helped'' when others seemed afraid or only offered services like counseling instead of money to pay the rent. 
For his part, Mr. Saalakhan says he is ''a provocateur for truth and justice,'' who loves America and has police officers in his family. He was happy to have Ms. Bah's siblings Mohamed, 14, Mariama, 12, and Abdoul, 8, join him, his wife and teenage daughter for the summer near Washington, where he directs the Peace and Justice Foundation, ''a grass-roots human rights organization.'' 
''What our government has put this family through is unconscionable,'' he said. 
But the volunteer lawyers who took over Ms. Bah's asylum case last fall are leery of any effort to make her emblematic of larger issues, when government lawyers are raising no national security questions. 
''Right now all we have is a straightforward asylum claim,'' said Bryan Lonegan, a lawyer with the Legal Aid Society's immigration unit who is advising Hughes, Hubbard lawyers on the case. ''This is a life and death situation for her.'' 
The petition draws a grim picture of what she would face in Guinea as a young woman with intact genitalia who opposes the painful and dangerous practice of female genital mutilation. 
In Guinea, ''If a girl's genitals are not mutilated, she is considered dirty, repulsive, unfit for marriage and motherhood, and devoid of morals and monetary value,'' an expert, Hanny Lightfoot-Klein, wrote in an affidavit. Male relatives consider themselves dishonored, and will beat her until she submits, the affidavit added. ''Elder women perform the procedure on dimly lit floors, with dull kitchen knives, glass shards, scissors or razor blades,'' the affidavit said. 
Ms. Bah's mother, Aissatou Dalanda Bah, who has separately applied for asylum, had her clitoris excised by her grandmother with a kitchen knife when she was about 10, the court papers said. Later, she watched helplessly as one of Adama's cousins bled to death from the procedure. 
For Ms. Bah, who grew up absorbing American values and believing she was a legal immigrant, the prospect is terrifying and unreal. Genital mutilation ''has nothing to do with my religion,'' she said. ''You can't just circumcise a woman against her will, to take away her pleasure. That's my right as a woman.'' Her fear has become one more part of a day-to-day struggle to hold the family together, she said, as she repeatedly interrupted the interview to respond to her youngest brother, Saeed, 2. 
''It's hard to concentrate in school,'' she said, explaining that she has missed many days this fall tending to the needs of her siblings, who now get public aid. 
''In front of people,'' she added, ''you have to be this happy person, even though inside, it hurts.''

</file>

<file= AmE06_A26>

Charles Miner screamed in pain as flames lashed the right side of his face, but he was lucky. 
Miner was one of about 600 residents who escaped to safety as a wall of flames 100 feet high raced through Twin Pines on Thursday, killing four firefighters and leaving a fifth in critical condition. 
The U.S. Forest Service firefighters were trapped when gusting winds suddenly blew flames in their direction as they attempted to save a house. 
Investigators determined that the so-called Esperanza Fire was started by an arsonist around 1 a.m. Thursday in a remote mountainous area of Riverside County, said Capt. John Hawkins of the Riverside County Fire Department. By evening, the fire had blackened 19,000 acres and was still burning out of control. 
"It appeared to have been set in a place where it would spread the fastest and cause the most damage," said a visibly angry Hawkins during a news conference. "This is an arson fire," he said. "(It) constitutes murder." 
Miner, a 42-year-old construction contractor from the desert bushland community 25 miles west of Palm Springs, was awakened before dawn by the rampaging fire and fled to safety as firefighters rushed in to protect the town's properties. 
He had evacuated his family from his home and managed to save some of his belongings before the danger became overwhelming. He abandoned his home, cutting through flames in his backhoe to save himself. 
"It was so intense I was screaming,'' said Miner, who escaped with blisters to his face and burns to his arm. "Sparks were flying everywhere. 
"I looked back and the roof was already gone," Miner said as he huddled with his neighbors at the Banning Community Center, near Cabazon, which was serving as an emergency evacuation center. "It's all just gone." 
The Esperanza Fire is now the deadliest wildfire for firefighters in the United States since July 10, 2001, when four firefighters were killed battling the Thirtymile Fire in Washington's Okanogan National Forest. 
The Southern California blaze was first reported at 1:12 a.m. 90 miles east of Los Angeles, prompting a U.S. Forest Service firefighting crew from the Alandale Ranger Station in Idyllwild to rush to the scene. 
Five firefighters were trying to save a home at about 8 a.m., according to Hawkins, when gusting winds suddenly pushed the flames toward them. The firefighters apparently were overcome before they had a chance to use their emergency shelters or seek refuge in their fire engine, said Pat Boss, a Forest Service spokesman. 
"They had left their truck to do structure protection when the fire overran them," Boss said. "They were trapped." 
Three firefighters died on the spot, and the fourth died later at a local hospital. Hawkins said a fifth firefighter was in critical condition. The names of the dead and injured firefighters were not immediately released, but forest service officials said all were members of the Idyllwild crew. Some news reports identified one of the dead as Capt. Mark Loutzenhiser, 43, of Idyllwild, who leaves behind a wife and five children. 
A mandatory evacuation was ordered for up to 400 homes in the Twin Pines, Poppet Flats, Vista Grand and South Banning areas. More than a thousand firefighters from various agencies battled the blaze, assisted by 144 engines, 13 helicopters and 10 air tankers, according to the California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection. 
The blaze was burning in the same general vicinity as July's Sawtooth Complex fire, which killed one person, injured 15 and scorched more than 80,000 acres, including 58 homes and residences. 
Local and federal authorities are jointly investigating the arson, but no suspects have been identified. James Cowell, an agent with the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, said that, if caught, the arsonist could be prosecuted for murder under federal law. 
As many as 1,000 other residents in the sparsely populated region were forced to hunker down in a recreational vehicle park after a twisting ribbon of flame threatened to engulf the only road out. 
The Esperanza Fire is one of two fires that broke out almost simultaneously in different parts of California. 
Another fast-moving fire burned 80 acres near the Silverado Country Club Resort, about two miles northeast of Napa, forcing a brief evacuation of nearby homes, but that fire was contained by Thursday night. 
The Riverside County Board of Supervisors is offering a $100,000 reward for any information that leads to the capture of the Esperanza Fire arsonist, who, officials believe, set the fire just as Santa Ana winds were kicking up to maximize its destructive potential. 
Boss said all U.S. Forest Service personnel were pulled off the fire so they could "gather their thoughts, say their prayers." 
The fire quickly moved southwest over steep, rocky terrain toward Twin Pines and Poppet Flats, two hamlets dotted with houses and a boys' juvenile home, according to fire officials. The area was evacuated at about 3:30 a.m., forcing residents to hastily pack their cars with belongings and gather their pets. 
The evacuees described a terrifying scene as a towering orange sheet of flames bore down on them. 
Vince Regalado said he was awakened by the smoke shortly before 4 a.m., just as fire trucks were driving down the street ordering residents to clear out. When he looked toward the canyon, he saw a small orange spot, but within minutes flames were dancing 100 feet high up the canyon wall. 
"At least we had time to get the dogs and the cats, but we had to leave the goats and the chickens," Regalado said. 
John Robinson said friends helped him move several cars before the fire reached his house, but the smoke began to suffocate him when he returned to collect his personal items. All he could do, he said, was save himself. 
"I'm in really bad shape," he said. "I got nothing out." 
The fire, fed by winds gusting up to 35 mph, moved too quickly for residents of the Valley Club recreational vehicle park near Poppet Flat. Between 400 and 1,000 residents of the RV park had to wait out the fire after firefighters decided that the only road out, Highway 243, was too dangerous to use. Some vehicles gunned it through the flames and smoke just before firefighters closed the road. 
The flames headed Thursday night roughly in the direction of a desert-like region called the Badlands, where few people live and there is hardly any fuel to burn. Fire officials are concerned, however, that if the blaze continues moving south it will reach the San Bernardino National Forest, where thousands of trees killed by a bark beetle infestation could serve as tinder, endangering more homes. 
Santa Ana winds, which blow out of the interior toward the coast, are a typical occurrence this time of year in Southern California and have fueled many fires in the past. 
They are generated by high pressure over the Great Basin. A "red flag" warning for extreme fire danger had been issued in the region before the fire broke out. 
Henry Renteria, director of the state Office of Emergency Services, said the state is sending resources to the area to make sure the 600 evacuees have everything they need. Renteria said he requested and received a fire management assistance grant from FEMA, which will reimburse local governments 75 percent of their costs for fighting the fire. 
Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger held a news conference in Sacramento on Thursday afternoon to express his sympathy for the families of the dead. 
"The people who fight fires are amongst the bravest men and women anywhere. We must never take for granted the hard work, the sacrifices and the danger that they deal with," Schwarzenegger said. "Anyone that is risking their own lives to save others is a true hero." 

Reviving concern about bagged greens just a week after regulators lifted a warning on eating packaged fresh spinach from three California counties, a Salinas company recalled a popular brand of lettuce Sunday, saying it may have been contaminated by E. coli. 
The firm's president said he does not believe the discovery is linked to a recent outbreak of the bacteria in spinach, which has killed three people, sickened nearly 200 more and prompted a federal criminal probe. 
The new, voluntary recall affects shipments of Foxy brand green leaf lettuce made Tuesday through Friday by the Nunes Co. Inc. The lettuce went to retailers in California and six other states and to distributors that may have passed it along to restaurants. 
The recall involves different crops and a different farm from the spinach outbreak. But it may compound the woes facing Salinas Valley growers just beginning to measure the economic damage from the 3- week-long spinach debacle, which put a focus on the region's 11- year record of E. coli outbreaks. 
Company and federal officials said Sunday that no infections had been reported. Company President Tom Nunes Jr. sought to soothe consumers. 
"This is a precautionary measure based upon the recent events in the produce industry, our concern for our customers and our concern about the product," Nunes said in an interview. 
Nunes said the recalled lettuce came from one farm -- he would not disclose its location -- where some of the water used to irrigate the crop tested positive for E. coli. The contaminated water came from a backup reservoir; the well water primarily used to irrigate the farm tested clean, he said. Nunes said he did not know the reason for the contamination or why the reservoir was being used. 
Nunes said he does not yet know for certain whether any of the recalled lettuce was tainted. It is sold as "Green Leaf 24 Count, waxed carton" and "Green Leaf 18 Count, cellophane sleeve, returnable carton." Both are designated by the lot code of 6SL0024 and would have been purchased Tuesday or later. Consumers can return the product to the place of purchase for a full refund. 
Nunes said 97 percent of the product had been successfully recalled by Sunday afternoon. 
"We emphasize that we are reacting to a water test only. Samples of the product are now being tested," Nunes said. "We're not sure, but a very small percentage of this may have made it to the consumer. ... We're not taking a chance." 
Investigators have traced all the similar E. coli bacteria detected in September to spinach packaged by Natural Selection Foods LLC but have stressed that there is no evidence that anyone intentionally tainted it. E. coli can cause diarrhea and, in a small portion of cases, kidney damage and sometimes death. 
Julie Zawisza, a spokeswoman for the Food and Drug Administration, declined to comment in detail about the new recall but said the regulatory agency is investigating. 
"At this time, I can only confirm that FDA is aware of the firm's voluntary recall and we are looking into it," she said Sunday. "If this is a case of bacterial contamination, we would need to find out the scope and whether it affects all Nunes lettuce or is limited, for example, to only certain lots. 
"As a standard course of action," she said, "we would expect the firm to identify the source of the contamination and take steps to correct and prevent it, to ensure that it doesn't happen again." 
Last week, agents from the Food and Drug Administration and the FBI served search warrants at Natural Selection in San Juan Bautista and Growers Express in Salinas in an effort to find out if the companies followed proper procedures to keep spinach safe. 
The FDA assured consumers last week that all fresh spinach is as safe as it was before the outbreak began. 
The outbreak marked the 20th time since 1995 that leafy greens from California have been contaminated by a deadly strain of E. coli and the ninth instance that the bacteria was traced to the Salinas Valley. In most outbreaks, agricultural experts say, investigators are able to trace the bacteria to a specific product but cannot pinpoint the exact cause of the contamination.

</file>

<file= AmE06_A27>

There's an old saying that "a rising tide lifts all boats." Popularized by President John F. Kennedy, it generally refers to how a growing economy benefits everyone. 
These days, however, it might need to be revised to say: "A rising tide lifts all yachts." Or perhaps it should be retired entirely, because it no longer appears to be accurate. 
That's the inescapable conclusion from Tuesday's Census Bureau report on poverty. Some 37 million Americans lived below the poverty line ($19,971 for a family of four) in 2005 -- that's 4million more than at the height of the last recession, in 2001. 
The same report showed that the median annual income of $46,326 was essentially unchanged from where it was in 2001, and that the ranks of those without health insurance, now at 46.6 million, continue to grow. 
What makes the numbers so troubling is that they come four years into an economic recovery that by other measures has been robust. From 2001 to 2005, the gross output of the economy increased by about 12% above the rate of inflation, worker productivity surged and corporate profits doubled. 
Traditionally, those trends have been the key to lifting living standards for everyone -- the cornerstone of a stable, successful society. But not this time. Technological innovation and global competition have hurt wages for low-skilled workers while creating new opportunities for skilled workers. 
Indeed, while poverty has been rising, so has the percentage of households making more than $100,000 a year. In 2005, 17.2% of households made six figures. In 1990, just 12% made the inflation- adjusted equivalent. 
The poverty numbers and rising income inequality pose troubling political issues. Large segments of society might see little reason to support policies -- notably free trade -- that promote economic growth. Instead, they could turn to protectionism and to demagogic political leaders more interested in promoting class warfare than in economic expansion. 
So what can be done? Most immediately, the nation needs sweeping health reforms that arrest runaway costs and assure coverage for all, particularly workers forced to choose between health care and other life necessities. 
More broadly, the numbers show what a horrible job the nation is doing in providing the education and job skills its citizens need to compete. The principal problem is not that the economy is producing too few good jobs. It is that society is producing too many unskilled workers. 
Government is very good at spending money on programs that support key constituencies. Benefit programs, led by Social Security and Medicare, make up more than half of all federal spending. 
But government is not very good at investing in the future. If society cannot figure a way for everyone to share in the nation's economic growth, future tides could be shallow indeed. 

HUNTSVILLE, Ala. -- Somewhere between curriculum committees, writing conferences and presentations to principals about computerized blackboards, Bridget Kay Call found a few hours this summer to rise up and fly. 
An airplane ride simulating a near-zero-gravity environment was the icing on summer's cake for the high school English, speech and theater teacher from Matewan, W.Va., one of nearly 90 state Teachers of the Year who spent a week here swapping ideas at a special workshop courtesy of Northrop Grumman and other sponsors. 
The experience of weightlessness left Call speechless -- and able to sympathize with students who struggle to describe the world around them. "The speech teacher is speechless, and that's not quite like me," she says. 
Though the flight was unusual -- the first just for teachers -- the teachers are not. Like most educators these days, they often spend summers working to fulfill new state and federal requirements. 
"People think teachers are off for the summer, and they're not," says Kathleen Blake Yancey of the National Council of Teachers of English. 
The trend toward better qualifications has intensified with No Child Left Behind, President Bush's education reform law, which demands that all teachers be "highly qualified" in every subject they teach. 
A federal review found that not a single state had met the Education Department's spring deadline that every core-subject teacher be qualified in his or her subject. 
Only nine states received favorable reviews for filing plans that show how they'll get all teachers qualified by the end of the 2006- '07 school year. 
Many districts require summer courses and workshops to get their share of the nation's 3million teachers up to speed. Teachers these days also study sea turtle habitats in Costa Rica, evolution in the Galapagos, geology in Wyoming, physics at Los Alamos, N.M., and the history of the Wright Brothers in Dayton, Ohio, among others specialties. 
While public money is limited, teachers tap into hundreds of public-private partnerships that, in many cases, take them far from home for once-in-a-lifetime training experiences. 
"If I don't keep growing, how do I expect my students to?" says Call, 53, her zip-up navy-blue flight suit adorned with a tiny silver pin in the shape of West Virginia. 
She and others say young teachers have especially busy summers, with rules that all but force them to earn a master's degree early in their career. A colleague of Call's on the flight, Durand Payton, 33, teaches biology in Moss Point, Miss. He has taught only four years and already is taking four classes at the University of Southern Mississippi to keep his job. "It's been a very busy summer," he says. 
Shannon C'de Baca, a veteran science teacher in Council Bluffs, Iowa, and a trainer in the federally funded Teacher-to-Teacher workshops every summer, estimates that 60% to 70% of her colleagues take some sort of summer coursework, either to keep certification current or to "learn tricks of the trade" from other teachers. 
"We don't have time to talk to other teachers except before school and after school," she says. 
Meetings and tutoring sessions intrude on training and discussion among colleagues, which teachers "seem to crave," C'de Baca says. 
The government established the Teacher-to-Teacher program in 2004 to serve students who don't always get well-trained instructors. 
"Teachers were desperate for high-quality professional development done by their peers," says Carolyn Snowbarger, who directs the program. By the end of this summer, the program will have trained about 10,000 teachers. 
"By the time you multiply that out, we will have reached the teachers of a million students," Snowbarger says. 
This summer, teachers have traveled to Dayton to learn about the early work of the Wright Brothers; to Billings, Mont., to learn about the history and science of the Lewis and Clark expedition; and to West Orange, N.J., to learn about the work of Thomas Edison. 
The program is a relative bargain at $2 million. Teachers or their school districts cover travel, meals and hotel expenses, and many teachers carpool and share hotel rooms to cut costs. 
At San Francisco's Exploratorium, a popular hands-on science museum, hundreds of teachers spend four weeks training each summer. Each Friday they take part in an Iron Science Teacher competition to see who can come up with the best lesson using identical supplies. In a tongue-in-cheek tribute to the Iron Chef TV series, trainers at the last minute throw in a surprise supply to be incorporated. In 25 years, they have trained about 3,400 teachers and 1,000 teacher trainers. 
Though no reliable data exist on how many teachers train or work during the summer, national data show the percentage of teachers earning a master's degree more than doubled from 1961 to 2001, from 23% to 56%. 
The No Child Left Behind law is just one of the factors driving the changes. Businesses are demanding better-prepared students, adding to the pressure teachers feel to keep up-to-date on the latest research and developments in their fields. 
Yet recent research shows that U.S. teachers spend less time collaborating with their colleagues than teachers elsewhere. In Japan, for instance, teachers spend about one-third fewer hours a day in front of classes but more time brainstorming with colleagues. 
On any given day, Japanese teachers are far more likely than U.S. teachers to be in the teachers' lounge, asking one another, "What worked in your classroom today?" says Dennis Bartels, the Exploratorium's executive director. 
Though thousands of teachers take advantage of programs such as those at the Exploratorium, the numbers are "infinitesimal compared to the number of teachers we want to be constantly learning and improving our practice," says Dennis Sparks of the National Staff Development Council, a non-profit advocacy group based in Ohio. 
Snowbarger agrees. She hopes Congress will raise her budget from $2 million to $3 million to expand her summer workshops next year. 
"If we're going to have accountability for students, we're certainly going to have accountability for how we're training our teachers," she says. 
Just increasing the amount of time students are supposed to spend in physical education class is no guarantee they'll move more, a new study shows. 
Obesity experts have been calling for children to go to gym class more often to help stop obesity in young people. About one-third of children and teens in the USA are either overweight or on the brink of becoming so. 

Most states introduced legislation this year and in 2005 to toughen up PE requirements. 
To figure out whether higher PE time requirements are effective, economist John Cawley of Cornell University and colleagues analyzed data on 37,000 teens in grades nine through 12 from government surveys in 1999, 2001 and 2003. The economists did calculations on students' height, weight and amount of time in gym classes and compared the data with states' PE requirements. 
They found that when states required an extra year of PE for high school students, which is roughly 200 more minutes a week of physical education: 
*Male students said they spent another 7.6 minutes a week exercising or playing sports in gym class. 
*Female students spent an extra eight minutes and six seconds a week doing exercise in PE. 
There may be several reasons for this small increase in time, Cawley says. "Some schools are ignoring the laws and not meeting the state requirements." And some teachers are not keeping children moving during class time, he says. 
His research also showed that the amount of time states required for physical education classes didn't seem to have an effect on teens' weight or risk of obesity. 
He says another study showed that 26% of schools in the country fail to comply with state regulations for PE, and research on elementary school students in a county in Texas showed that the children did moderate to vigorous activity for 3.4 minutes of a 40- minute class. About two-thirds of class time was spent in sedentary activity; one-quarter of the time was spent doing minimal activity. 
"The real risk here is that states may increase the time requirements, think they've addressed the problem of childhood obesity and may move on to other priorities," says Cawley, whose paper is in the fall issue of Education Next. The journal is published by the Hoover Institution, a non-profit think tank at Stanford University. 
If states want to increase physical activity, they also need to consider revising PE curricula to ensure that schools offer motivating classes that actually get kids to play games, run around and move more, he says. Plus, there's the question of enforcement. Parents and policymakers need to hold schools and teachers accountable to meet the requirements, Cawley says. 
Russell Pate, professor of exercise science at the University of South Carolina, who has also studied PE, says classes run the gamut from ones in which students spend a lot of time moving to those in which children are standing around most of the time. 
"That would be the equivalent of a math class where nobody is working on their math problems," he says. 
Craig Buschner, president-elect of the National Association of Sport and Physical Education, a group of professionals in the field, says, "Physical education, if taught well, can be a cornerstone of helping people become physically active throughout their lives."

</file>

<file= AmE06_A28>

Boulder, Colo., prosecutors abruptly dropped their case against John Mark Karr on Monday, just an hour before he was supposed to appear in court in the killing of JonBenet Ramsey. 
The Boulder district attorney's office said Karr's DNA didn't match the male DNA found at the scene of the death of 6-year-old JonBenet. 
The prosecutor's office also said Karr's family provided evidence that he was with them in Atlanta at Christmas in 1996 when JonBenet was killed. 
Karr told authorities he had killed JonBenet, and he was arrested Aug. 16 in a stunning turn in the decade-old mystery. 
But last week, Gary Harris, a lawyer for Karr's family, said the family had a photo from Christmas 1996 that includes Karr's children. Karr wasn't in the photo, but family members said he had not missed a Christmas gathering until five years ago, and that they knew if his children were there, he was there. 
In an interview Monday with MSNBC, Harris said of the DNA: "I knew it wouldn't match." 
Now Karr, 41, is scheduled to be transferred to California to stand trial on five unrelated child pornography possession charges dating to 2001. 
Henry Lee, a well-known DNA expert, said that a DNA match would be important in any prosecution of Karr, but only if prosecutors could establish Karr was in Boulder at the time of the killing. 
"If you cannot establish that he was in Boulder, you cannot establish that the DNA was his," said Lee, who served as a consultant to investigators in the weeks after Ramsey was found strangled and with a fractured skull in her parents' basement. 
In court papers, District Attorney Mary Lacy defended the decision to arrest Karr and bring him back to the United States for further investigation, saying he might have fled and may have been targeting children in Thailand, where he was arrested. 
That argument did not persuade critics, however. 
"We're deeply distressed by the fact that they took this man and dragged him here from Bangkok, Thailand, with no forensic evidence confirming the allegations against him and no independent factors leading to a presumption he did anything wrong," said Seth Temin, Karr's court-appointed attorney. 
Colorado Gov. Bill Owens weighed in as well: "I find it incredible that Boulder authorities wasted thousands of taxpayer dollars to bring Karr to Colorado given such a lack of evidence," he said in a written statement. "Mary Lacy should be held accountable for the most extravagant and expensive DNA test in Colorado history." 
Boulder authorities already had a black eye from their pursuit of the Ramsey family as suspects, an avenue they eventually abandoned. 
Lacy vowed to keep pursuing leads in JonBenet's death: "This case is not closed." 
But it was not clear what options authorities had --- and whether the events to date might make any prosecution untenable. 
"You still have an unsolved murder, and the next person who comes along if potentially accused is now going to have in front of them this as a defense," said B.J. Bernstein, a former assistant district attorney who is now a defense lawyer in Atlanta. 
"With every mistake they [investigators] make, the more difficult it will be to ultimately find who did this." 
Both Karr and the Ramsey family have strong ties to the Atlanta area. 
JonBenet was born at Northside Hospital before her family moved to Boulder when she was 1. 
Several months after JonBenet's death in 1996, her parents moved back to the area, settling in Vinings. Patsy Ramsey died here in June of ovarian cancer. Both she and JonBenet are buried at St. James Episcopal Cemetery in Marietta. 
Ramsey family members in metro Atlanta just days ago had looked forward to a resolution of the case. "Relieved, relieved, relieved, relieved," was the response at that time of JonBenet's aunt, Paulette Davis. 
Now those hopes are gone. "I don't know what to say," Davis said Monday evening. "I just want to have some quiet time." 
Accounts of Karr's life are somewhat murky, but he spent most or all his first 12 years in metro Atlanta, before moving to Hamilton, Ala., to live with his grandparents. He returned to Georgia after graduating from high school and had several local addresses, including his father's in Atlanta and his mother's in DeKalb County. His second marriage, in 1989, was performed at the Gwinnett County courthouse in Lawrenceville. 
He went back to Alabama in the early 1990s and later moved to Calilfornia. 
Karr's brother, Nate, had insisted since Mark Karr's arrest that authorities had the wrong guy. 
"We're sure he's innocent," Nate Karr said at the time. "We heard that there's good DNA evidence. I hope they can test him as soon as possible so they can exonerate him." 
Monday evening Nate Karr's phone went unanswered, and his voice mail box was full. 
Mark Karr told reporters in Thailand that he was with JonBenet at her Boulder home the night she was killed, and prosecutors' court documents refer to his "repeated admissions." But questions were raised almost immediately about his account. 
"He's obsessed with JonBenet, and like many obsessed people I think he just wanted to be part of the story," speculated Scott Robinson, a Denver attorney who has followed the murder case from the beginning. "I think he wanted to become part of the JonBenet saga ... and boy, he did he ever." 
In documents released Monday by the district attorney's office, it is clear just how obsessed Karr was with the murder --- and why investigators were led to believe he was involved. In e-mails to a University of Colorado journalism professor, Karr said he accidentally asphyxiated JonBenet during sex. 
"Under the circumstances, the DA's office did the right thing to bring him back ... just as they did the right thing to quash the warrant against him right now," Robinson said. 
After Karr's arrest, the Roswell Police Department was lauded for providing unspecified "technical assistance" in the matter. 
"Sometimes it goes your way, sometimes it doesn't," Sgt. James McGee, the department's spokesman, said Monday after hearing the news from Boulder. "It's just one of those things. We deal in probable cause." 
Karr isn't exactly a free man, he noted. 
"California still wants him," McGee said. "He's got some trouble." 

The specter of new terror attacks involving airliners comes at a sensitive time for an industry just now showing signs of recovery from the financial turmoil after 9/11. 
Airline industry experts predicted the economic effect would be limited --- unless more threats emerge or the security clampdown is overzealous. 
"Hopefully we're not going to see a drop in traffic," said James May, president of the Air Transport Association, in a teleconference with reporters. "We've only been into this for 24 hours. It would be entirely premature to speculate." 
Airlines including Atlanta-based Delta, reorganizing in bankruptcy court, will feel a short-term revenue hit from flight cancellations and so-called "book-away" by worried travelers, the experts said. 
"That will right itself next week as long as business travelers have some confidence" that British authorities netted enough would-be terrorists to foil their plot to blow up U.S.-bound jets, said Kevin Mitchell, chairman of the Business Travelers Coalition. 
"The caveat is we don't know the facts yet and we may not for a while and [federal authorities] may keep the onerous restrictions on, and that will hurt Delta," Mitchell said. "What business traveler is going to check his $2,000 laptop?" 
Currently, the most restrictive security rules that ban travelers from taking their computers and other carry-on items apply only to flights from the United Kingdom to the United States --- a popular international market but a tiny percentage of all flights. 
According to a published report, only about 3 percent of the 3,800 daily flights out of the United Kingdom are trans-Atlantic. Delta has seven daily flights to the United Kingdom, including five from Atlanta, out of more than 4,200 daily flights systemwide. 
Delta has boosted international flying this year as part of its strategy to restructure in bankruptcy court. The company has recently shown improved financial results, and an executive said Thursday the airline will "continue to be confident in international markets." 
"We also think customers will continue to have confidence in air travel," said Glen Hauenstein, Delta's executive vice president of network operations, in an e-mail. 
Delta recently said it will buy long-sought flying rights from United Airlines between New York's John F. Kennedy airport and Gatwick airport in London. 
In an e-mail message to corporate travel managers, Mitchell of the Business Travelers Coalition worried that business travelers may be put off by the additional security measures that U.S. and British authorities instituted early Thursday. 
Security check lines in U.S. airports stretched for hours Thursday after all liquids and gels, including drinks and toothpaste, were banned from carry-on bags. Today, the Transportation Security Administration also is expected to start secondary checks at boarding gates, at least on a random basis. 
The Air Transport Association's May said the checks could slow passenger processing but also should instill confidence. "I hope it's going to encourage people to fly," he said. 
Mike Boyd, of the aviation consulting firm the Boyd Group, wasn't as optimistic. 
"The fact that suntan lotion is going to be taken away from people in Omaha doesn't make me feel safer," he said. Airlines will suffer financially "if the hassle factor goes back to the level where it was" shortly after 9/11, he said. 
One part of the industry that could benefit is charter companies that offer business travelers seats on small private planes and a way to bypass clogged airports. 
"I hate to get a benefit from anything as awful as terrorism," said David Lee, founder of AirShares Elite, an Atlanta-based group that operates 50 single-engine, four-seat planes. "But lines that stretch into the parking lot [at Hartsfield-Jackson] and airline delays are good for our business." 
Pat Epps, founder of Epps Aviation at DeKalb-Peachtree Airport, said he didn't expect a surge in new charter business. 
"Airline delays are a plus for us," he said. "They provide another reason for people to consider aircraft charters. But it's a blip. I think the airlines will get back to normal pretty soon." 

"She had a job, a stable job. ... They think it's a suicide because they found a gun in there. Everything is weird. I don't believe it. They have to look for everything." 
Villegas lived with Vasquez's family, renting a tiny bedroom scarcely wider than two outstretched arms. Villegas had been in the United States for about five years, and with the Vasquezes for the last year, said her brother Bulmaro Villegas at her funeral Sunday. 
"We have to leave our country to have the life you want," Bulmaro Villegas said. Lupe's life was "another Mexican dream." 
Villegas was a jokester, fond of singing and dancing, her brother said. "You never knew when she's angry," he said. 
She left her 6-year-old daughter, Manuelita, with her mother and grandmother in Guanajuato, Mexico, to earn better money for her daughter's care. 
Villegas' friends said she picked up odd jobs where she could. One day, she might be putting up dry wall at a strip mall in Norcross. The next day, she might be framing houses. 
She would come to El Rancho Market on Buford Highway to pick up some beers or a snack after work some days. 
"Her clothes would be paint-speckled," said Victor Castaneda, the market owner. "Not only her clothes, but her body, too." 
Villegas earned about $500 a week doing such labor, her brother said. She sent from $300 to $400 of that home. 
But she had recently landed a new job with a housemate, working contract construction jobs. 
Thursday would have been her first day at work, said Roberto Villa-Lobos, a member of the family she was staying with. 
"She was going to go to work with me at 6:30 a.m.," Villa-Lobos said. She had bought new gear for the work --- a tool bag, hammers and measuring tape. "She was so happy."

</file>

<file= AmE06_A29>

Five years ago, Dallas-Fort Worth took a major jolt when the telecom industry crashed. Only now is the North Texas economy finally emerging from the wreckage.

But instead of the high-flying telecom employers who hired workers by the tens of thousands in the late 1990s, economic growth is now diffused across numerous industries, including trade, business services and health care, according to members of The Dallas Morning News' Board of Economists.

And "completely under the radar" is the potential merging of regional expertise in information technology and life sciences - just in time to deal with baby boomers hitting retirement age.

"We're the best-positioned region in the U.S. to exploit the coming pressures in health care because we provide the information systems," said Don Hicks, a professor of political economy at the University of Texas at Dallas.

For all the talk of an improving outlook, a boom in Houston overshadows Dallas' recovery.

In the last six months, a robust energy sector has boosted job growth in Houston. Evacuees from the Gulf hurricanes last fall filled up residential and commercial real estate, and Louisiana port closures boosted trade activity.

"It's real interesting to look at the reversal of fortune in the Houston area and Dallas-Fort Worth," said Bernard Weinstein, director of the Center for Economic Development at the University of North Texas. "Houston is the superstar in Texas."

As telecom thrived in the Dallas area in the '90s, regional job creation outpaced Houston's. In the last five years, that trend reversed. Houston has added 60,000 jobs; Dallas payrolls are at a 50,000-job deficit, with total employment of 1.96 million at the end of last year, compared with 2.01 million in December 2000.

The economists expect North Texas to recoup those losses this year.

"We are coming back. It's just very up and down," said Mine Yucel, vice president and senior economist at the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas. 
"The tech bust is continuing to hurt us."

In a wide-ranging discussion last week, the economists described a generally positive outlook for North Texas as they examined opportunities, problems and ticking time bombs in the economy.

Texas faces the same challenges as the nation as a whole - higher energy prices, soaring health care costs and rising concern over pensions, retirements and exploding federal deficits.

"While the economy here is pretty strong on the surface, I worry about what I call the soft underbelly," Mr. Weinstein said.

"Trade deficits, budget deficits to infinity, a negative savings rate for the last eight months," he said. "Pensions, bankruptcies, mountains of debt and borrowing that our prosperity is based on. Consumers continuing to spend when real incomes are falling. I mean, how long can this go on?"

The question is growing increasingly urgent as many people see their real incomes stagnate.

"We're losing real ground in terms of wages and salaries," said Stanley Suchman, regional commissioner for the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics. "Wages and salaries in the South, for example, in 2005, went up about 2 percent. Prices in the South ... went up about 3.7 percent in 2005."

Add to that a rapidly changing economy that can quickly render jobs obsolete, even as it creates opportunities, and the strain is felt in household budgets.

"Where we're creating wealth is exactly where we are breaking apart these processes," said Lyssa Jenkens, the Greater Dallas Chamber's chief economist.

"It's in these productivity gains and this breaking apart that we are creating wealth," she said. "It's a good thing, but it's a hard thing to talk about in terms of 'Where do people get jobs?'"

Health care

Health care is one of the largest concerns for both consumers and employers. But it also offers some of the greatest potential.

Nationally, health insurance premiums have risen 73 percent since 2000, according to the Kaiser Family Foundation. The number of people without insurance has surpassed 45 million, according to federal figures.

While lawmakers and health care executives consider ways both to control costs and extend health care coverage to more people, the economists said the industry must become more efficient.

That's key for North Texas companies, which are well positioned to leverage their expertise in communications and information systems into the health care arena.

"The key to health care is often not more biology and chemistry," Mr. Hicks said. "It's information flow. What we provide in this mix of resources is the ability to move information."

Right now, the region's maturing high-tech sector is still focused on established areas such as computers, semiconductors and telecommunications. But profits there aren't what they once were.

"Our high-tech sector is no longer a leading-edge high-tech sector," said Gary Preuss, economist at the Texas Comptroller's office. "We've got kind of old-guard tech here."

Future growth will probably come from seeking new opportunities, especially in health care.

"It plays absolutely to our competitive advantage in technology," Ms. Jenkens said. "We have that right mix of talent and skill to grow that industry."

Pensions

Another major question mark facing the U.S. economy is the looming pension crisis.

Companies from General Motors Corp. to International Business Machines Corp. have been scaling back their multibillion-dollar pension obligations, a trend that is widely expected to continue.

"We've just seen the tip of the iceberg of the old Rust Belt basically cashing in and saying to the government, 'You take care of it,'" said Michael Granfield, managing director of FTI Consulting.

Factor in Americans' dismal savings levels, and long-planned retirements may no longer be affordable.

"It's going to be an intergenerational clash," Mr. Granfield added. "It's going to be really ugly."

Mr. Hicks said society will adapt by redefining retirement. The trouble for some is that might mean doing away with it - an unhappy prospect for those hoping for a leisurely golden age, though potentially good news for those who want to stay active.

"People will want to be engaged," he said. "You may not work for a major employer, but there will be alternative sources of incomes. So I don't see any sort of apocalypse."

Trade

In recent years, Texas has become the largest exporter among the 50 states. Mexico remains the state's largest trading partner.

Many border communities enjoy higher employment levels today than during the 1990s boom.

"The border economy has grown tremendously over the past 10 years," said Suad Ghaddar, research associate at the Center for Border Economic Studies at the University of Texas-Pan American. "Employment has been growing very rapidly."

But the heavily Hispanic region is also an epicenter of one of the state's key long-term challenges - and opportunities. Hispanics are expected to account for a majority of Texans by 2020.

Educating their children is shaping up as a critical task in keeping the Texas economy competitive. Right now, wages on the border are about 60 percent of the U.S. average, Ms. Ghaddar said.

"There's a huge emphasis that we need to place on education, especially given the demographic shift we're going to see in Texas," she said. "This is a group that's characterized by low levels of education and high dropout rates."; 

Investing heaven may be only a sin away.

The Dallas-based Vice Fund has left political correctness to others and boldly gone where other mutual funds fear to tread - Sin City. The Vice Fund, which celebrated its fourth anniversary on Aug. 30, invests in casino stocks and in companies that make liquor, tobacco and bombs.

Given people's proclivities to drink, smoke, gamble and blow each other up no matter what the economic climate, it should come as no surprise that the Vice Fund has been a consistent top performer. It has beaten the Standard & Poor's 500 index in each of the past three years and is on track to do it again this year, with a 10 percent gallop so far in 2006, compared with a 5 percent gain for the S&P.

The Vice Fund holds Morningstar's highest five-star rating and over the past year ranks 22nd out of the 174 mutual funds that invest in midsize growth and value stocks.

"We have a history of outperforming the market," said Charles L. Norton, co-portfolio manager of the Vice Fund and principal at GNI Capital. "You soon realize that there is true investment merit in these sectors."

Merit indeed. Cigarette maker Altria Group Inc.,
Enhanced Coverage LinkingAltria Group Inc., the fund's largest holding, is up almost 70 percent for the past 18 months. Another holding, London-based Diageo PLC, which makes and distributes wine and spirits - including Johnnie Walker Scotch and Smirnoff vodka - is up about 30 percent for the same period. In the gaming sector, one of Mr. Norton's favorites is Las Vegas Sands Corp., which has gained about 40 percent.

He says these defensive sectors should perform even better - relative to the overall market - if the economy slows as most financial experts predict. That's because people will spend money to smoke, drink and probably even to gamble during a recession.

The defense sector is essentially tied to the U.S. military budget and moves independently of U.S. economic cycles. But given the current geopolitical turmoil in the Middle East, no one is projecting big budget cuts in defense.

"Based on historical precedent, right now is the most opportune time to be invested in this fund," Mr. Norton said. "The reason is we are at an inflection point in the economy. We are already seeing signs of softening in the economy."

Too limited?

Not everyone shares this much enthusiasm for the fund. Hugh Johnson, chairman of Johnson Illington Advisors in Albany, N.Y., said that although it's true the sin sectors have outperformed the broader market in recent years, there's no assurance that will continue.

"The Vice Fund clearly has hit it right recently, where all four of those sectors are doing well at the same time," he said. "The odds are against that working all the time."

Further, Mark Luschini, head of asset management at Parker Hunter Inc., a Pittsburgh money management firm, said these four sectors are by no means all of the defensive plays. Health care stocks, utility stocks and other consumer staples, such as soft drink companies and household products, should hold up reasonably well if the economy slows.

"The Vice Fund seems to be pretty narrowly focused," Mr. Luschini said. "I would be a little shy of being that tightly focused. You are leaving out a lot of prominent industry sectors."

Mr. Norton said, however, that there are hundreds of companies to choose from in those four sectors, so "it's pretty broad-based." Further, he said there are more nuanced strategies in vice investing than just playing on human weaknesses.

First, there are high barriers of entry into the sectors. For example, a limited number of gaming licenses are issued, and "you are not seeing any new tobacco companies that are starting up," Mr. Norton said. Second, companies in these sectors are highly profitable, with excellent cash flow and solid management.

Third, many of these vice stocks, especially the distillers and tobacco manufacturers, have substantial overseas operations. Some Asian countries are opening up to U.S. gaming companies.;

Lasting appeal

Las Vegas Sands is becoming "the most prominent player in the Asian gaming market, which is extremely fast-growing," Mr. Norton said. "There is even talk that Japan is going to allow casinos there for the first time."

Obviously, tobacco companies have faced litigation for years, but analysts are saying the legal risks are subsiding. Tobacco companies have won three major legal victories in the last nine months.

Recently, the Florida Supreme Court upheld a decision to negate a $145 billion judgment. This was one of the last remaining class-action cases involving the industry.
And finally, alcohol, tobacco, gaming and defense industries have been around for hundreds of years. Fads come and go, but people will probably always engage in those activities, he said.
"In the case of the alcohol and tobacco industries, those products are never made obsolete by new technology," Mr. Norton said.

</file>

<file= AmE06_A30>

A woman charged with fatally stabbing two men in 2004 was found not guilty by reason of insanity Monday.
Amber Torrez was charged with first-degree murder in the stabbing deaths of 55-year-old John Hand on March 28, 2004, and Denver cab driver Masfin Gezahgn the next day. Gezahgn, 45, was stabbed 39 times; Hand, the founder of the alternative Colorado Free University, was stabbed 30 times.
Torrez had repeatedly tried to plead guilty to the killings. But Denver District Judge Christina Habas rejected Torrez's request and entered a plea of not guilty by reason of insanity. The trial was scheduled for two days, but Habas was able to complete testimony Monday.
During testimony Monday, Denver police Detective Shawn Webster gave a gory description of the crime scene at Hand's home. 'There were obvious signs of a struggle,' he said. 'There was lots of blood. There was blood in the living room near the couch and a lot of blood in the work area.'
Two psychiatrists have determined that Torrez was insane at the time of the killings.
But one doctor, Karen Fukutaki, said that while Torrez was insane when the men were killed, Torrez was sane when Hand was robbed - just moments after he was stabbed to death.
Early in the day, defense attorney Holly Lucas made a brief statement, asking Habas to find Torrez not guilty by reason of insanity.
Webster testified Hand was pronounced dead soon after police responded to calls from a neighbor. 'The person in the downstairs unit called 911 after he heard his upstairs neighbor yelling he was being killed,' he said.
Webster said that there was a blood trail leading for blocks away from the home. DNA found in the blood matched Torrez's DNA, he said.
The surveillance cameras at the Denver gas station where Torrez allegedly used Hand's credit card showed something white wrapped around her fingers, the detective testified. Torrez told investigators that she was injured while stabbing Hand, he said.
Webster also testified about detectives the next day responding to an area near East 18th Avenue and Gilpin Street where Gezahgn was found dead.
In prior court hearings, Dr. Mark Diamond, chief of psychiatry at the Colorado Mental Health Institute, testified that Torrez was schizophrenic, has a bipolar orientation, which makes her manic and difficult to control, and has an antisocial/borderline disorder.
Fukutaki testified at an earlier hearing that Torrez told her at the age of 15 she was attacked by a man who held a knife to her throat and at age 18 was knocked out with a date-rape drug.

With JonBent Ramsey back on the front pages, parents will undoubtedly be reminded of the dangers posed by sexual predators.
Only last month, Greenwood Village became the first city in the state to pass an ordinance prohibiting convicted sex offenders from residing near schools, parks or playgrounds - essentially making the city off-limits.
There isn't a parent in Colorado who wants to live within close proximity of a sexual offender. And that might be the glaring flaw in this piecemeal solution.
According to Jeralyn Merritt, Denver-area lawyer and proprietor of TalkLeft.com, it's not the only problem.
'I think these are terrible laws,' Merritt says. 'First of all, they are a short-
sighted non-solution. Either these laws drive people underground or the result is that fewer people end up registering. You are pushing people to the outer limits, further not only from their jobs but also treatment centers. Making people live their lives in the shadows is not a solution. A lot of these people will become homeless.'
Sorry. I have zero empathy for sex offenders. Still, there are reasons to believe banishment laws are feel-good exercises with little positive outcome.
The majority of pedophiles, according to experts, are familiar to the family - and that could mean a neighbor. But there is nothing to prevent a predatory pedophile from driving to the next town.
Greenwood Village, in fact, has only four registered sex offenders. Not one of the more dangerous neighborhoods in the area. What happens when a predator from Greenwood Village packs up his belongings for Commerce City? Do children there deserve this new neighbor?
Another dilemma faces parents. The present system of registering offenders does not distinguish between the dangerous and the formerly dangerous - bundling statutory rape cases with violent pedophiles.
Without excusing anyone's criminal behavior, it's obvious such a system is unreliable and unfair.
'The question is, what was that person convicted of and how long ago was it?' Merritt asks. 'One of the problems is that we register violent sexual predators and someone who 10 years ago pled to having sex with an underaged girl as the same. A lot of these people are just not dangerous.'
Yes. And a large number are. Reviewing recidivism rates among pedophiles and sexual offenders will give the most confident parent chills. 'Not dangerous' is a concept that is hard to swallow for obvious reasons.
So I almost recoil when asking this question: But where exactly are these people expected to live? And if we relegate offenders to ghettos, are we pushing them to avoid treatment and registration?
According to Merritt, banishment laws 'help no one, but they hurt the sex offenders. They hurt those who have come out of prison and are trying to get a job and get their life back together. This could prevent them from living and finding a job, and then they may revert to economic crimes. A better solution would be to provide treatment.'
There is another nagging problem, and this involves principle: If a criminal has paid his debt to society, what right do we have to tell him where to live? Has this sort of banishment law met the constitutional test? 'It's been upheld in some places,' says Merritt, who explains there is a major test underway in the Georgia court system right now.
In 2002, Iowa passed a state law prohibiting sex offenders from living within 2,000 feet of schools and child-care centers anywhere in the state. But the law applied only to criminals whose victims were younger than 18. As of now, 15 states have similar laws on the books.
Greenwood Village would like to rid itself of offenders. Guess what? So would every other city in Colorado.
Is there a fair and productive way to protect children and rehabilitate sexual offenders? I don't know. But I do know no one wants the banished offenders of Greenwood Village in their town.
There has to be a better solution.
Brighton - The tales of rape among the spacious homes and well- kept lawns of the Sugar Creek subdivision were terrifying, and, for about four months, residents thought they were true.
A 14-year-old girl selling newspaper subscriptions said in April that she was grabbed by three men from behind, dragged to a nearby field and raped.
Then, five days later, a 34-year-old woman reported she was raped, having been pulled from a sidewalk by three men about two blocks from where the first alleged attack occurred.
'Oh, my God, everything changed for us,' said Sadie Escarcega, a three-year resident of Sugar Creek. 'We were always looking behind us and worried about someone behind us.'
Brighton police announced Monday that the girl and the woman were never assaulted, though it remains unclear why they would fabricate such a tale.
The alleged victims didn't know each other, police said.
'Personally, I've never seen anything go this far,' said Brighton Police Chief Clint Blackhurst. 'These crimes did not occur, and (the rapists) did not exist.'
The Brighton community rallied behind the neighborhood, putting up $19,000 for the capture of the assailants. Public meetings were held while police logged 1,400 man-hours and 300 hours of overtime investigating the claims, including a door-by-
door canvass of Sugar Creek, Blackhurst said.
Police also encountered several dead ends, including lack of DNA evidence and discrepancies in the descriptions and timelines the alleged victims gave police, Blackhurst said.
The 14-year-old reportedly told her supervisor that she made up the story, and the supervisor notified police. During interviews with detectives last week, the two alleged victims recanted their stories, the police chief said.
'I think both are remorseful and sad,' he added.
Blackhurst declined to identify the alleged victims. The teenager lives in Jefferson County, and the 34-year-old woman is a Brighton resident.
The case is being handed over to the Adams County district attorney, who will consider charges of false reporting to authorities, a Class 2 misdemeanor that carries a penalty of up to six months in jail and a $750 fine.
Blackhurst said he is not angry with the two alleged victims, but he is relieved. 'At least we know this type ofcrime didn't happen in Brighton,' Blackhurst said.
Still, he admits, his department may have to mend some fences with some in the Latino community. Both alleged victims described their attackers as Latino, and some Latinos thought they were being unfairly targeted by police.
'We certainly hope to alleviate any tension between the Hispanic community and elsewhere,' Blackhurst said.
Sugar Creek resident Steve Gonzales said police did little to shift suspicion away from law-abiding Latinos. 'We absolutely felt targeted,' he said.
Escarcega, however, said police were only doing their jobs. 'Whoever was doing this could be black, white, Chicano, whatever,' Escarcega said.
Many residents said they changed their daily lifestyles because of the reported attacks.
Escarcega quit jogging and made sure her three kids were always inside the house, especially in the weeks following the reported assaults. 'We were just terrified about going out,' Escarcega said.
In a way, the allegations brought out the best in Brighton, said Sugar Creek resident Diana Wiant. Posters were put up all over the city in English and Spanish, and people began watching out for one another, she said.
'This is just a shame because of the all the resources and time spent on this case,' Wiant said. 'This is just sad.'
Real rape victims, meanwhile, will face another hurdle when they come forward, said Tamika Payne, executive director of the Colorado Coalition Against Sexual Assault.
'A lot of attention gets placed on these instances of false accusations, which are so rare,' Payne said. 'It just makes it that much harder for survivors to step forward.'
The 22-year-old Boulder County resident stopped breathing and was taken to a Lafayette hospital but was pronounced dead about 8 p.m. Friday, Lafayette police Sgt. Fred Palmer said in a news release.
Authorities have not released the man's name pending notification of his family.
On Saturday, the suspect's uncle questioned the use of the Taser by police.
'He's not a very intimidating kid,' the uncle said. 'The end result in this case just doesn't fit the crime.'
The Boulder Drug Task Force and Louisville police were working on a drug operation when the suspect started running about 7 p.m. near Paschel Drive and Waneka Lake, Palmer said.
A Lafayette police officer spotted the suspect in a field north of South Boulder Road and started to chase him in his squad car, he said.
The officer drove in front of the suspect, got out of the patrol car and ordered the man to stop, Palmer said.
The suspect kept running as the officer yelled at him to stop. After a short foot chase, the suspect turned around and took an aggressive stance when the police officer fired the Taser, Palmer said.
The suspect collapsed, Palmer said. He was taken to Exempla Good Samaritan Medical Center in Lafayette.
The suspect's uncle, who did not want to give his name until all family members were notified, said his nephew was an unemployed plumber who had a few run-ins with the law.
He was about 6 feet tall and 130 pounds, the uncle said.
The cause of death is under investigation, Palmer said.
Lafayette police did not return phone calls for comment. It was not known what action, if any, was taken against the officer who fired the Taser.

</file>

<file= AmE06_A31>

The auctioneer announced 3611.

"Quarter!" a couple of dozen folks shouted, as a flurry of white papers with black numbers shot into the air.

"Quarter, number 967," the auctioneer said.

Then he announced 3612.

"Quarter!" they shouted, bid numbers outstretched.

"Quarter, number 963," the auctioneer said, picking another buyer from the crowd.

The rapid-fire auction continued this way for a day and a half, with bankers and personal investors wrangling over the right to pay someone else's taxes. By the end of the auction Thursday at the West Pasco Government Center, nearly $9.5-million in delinquent taxes had been collected on 6,616 properties.

A legal mandate to collect unpaid taxes, the tax collector's auction has become an annual ritual of sorts, with buyers trying to outbid and outshout one another, clerks plowing through massive stacks of paper and fast-talking auctioneers picking winners in a split second.

But it's a ritual that's coming to an end.

Tax Collector Mike Olson said he plans to switch to an Internet auction for next year's tax certificate sale - making last week's live auction Pasco's last.

"It's not that there are disadvantages in the old system," Olson said. "It's just there are so many advantages in going to the Internet sale," which takes less staff time, opens the field to more buyers and randomly picks the winner when scores of bidders offer the same amount.

"The positives of going to the Internet sale then make the old way of doing it look antiquated," Olson said. "But it's a hard thing. It's tradition, and they like being there and doing it."

Four counties tried the Internet auction in 2004. A dozen more joined them in 2005. This year, about half of Florida's 67 counties have traded the gavel for the mouse, although the counties still use live auctions for selling the actual properties if the owners fail to pay off the tax liens.

Live tax certificate auctions usually take days and can add up to hundreds of hours of staff time, as clerks painstakingly record each sale by hand and then enter the data into computers.

But an online auction, which features hundreds or thousands of tax certificates up for bidding at the same time, can be done in a matter of hours, with little or no data entry.

Rather than asking a bleary-eyed auctioneer to determine which bidder first yelled "quarter!" - as in quarter-percent, the lowest possible bid - the online auction randomly picks a winner among the tied bidders.

And the computerized version doesn't cost the tax collectors a thing: The online auctioneers make their money by tacking a small fee onto each tax certificate that is sold.

Some investors say the online auction will be an improvement. Instead of sifting through pages of property listings and researching each tract, buyers can find most of the useful property information by clicking around the auction Web site, James Mathieu Jr. said.

"They give you all of it at your fingertips," said Mathieu, a Port Richey lawyer who invests for himself.

But other investors say the online auction will push them out of the game.

The banks and financial institutions, which snatch up most of the tax certificates at a quarter-percent, have enough money to bid on everything in sight. But individuals can bid only on what they can afford. They can bid more or less as a live auction unfolds, because tax certificates are sold one at a time. But in an Internet auction, bidders are competing for hundreds or thousands of tax certificates at the same time, and no one knows how much they've won until that batch closes.

"The individual investor is overwhelmed by the banks that are investing in the tax certificates now," said Hank Stone, 56, a retired mortgage company vice president who personally invests in tax certificates. He lives in Valrico but came to Pasco's live auction last week because Hillsborough's auction is online.

"Whenever you bid online, you don't know how much you're going to get," Stone said. "That leaves the little investor out."

Kathi Hoker picks up the junk at tax certificate auctions.

She sits back while the bidders from the banks compete for quarter-percents on houses and shopping centers. When scrappy little properties come up and the room goes quiet, Hoker raises her number and offers 18 percent - the highest interest rate allowed.

"This is my retirement money," Hoker, a 52-year-old real estate agent from Plant City, explained during a break. "I'm in it for the long run."

But the live auctions are quickly becoming a thing of the past. Hoker used to collect the junk in Citrus until that county switched to Internet auctions last year. She came to Pasco's auctions in 2005 and 2006 because it was the only county in the area that hadn't gone online.

Hoker tried the Internet auction in Citrus last year. She said she put in 60 or 80 bids, but "I didn't even get one."

In a live auction, folks can look around the room and see their competition. But an Internet auction is open to anyone with a computer. When Brevard County took its auction online in 2005, for instance, the number of bidders shot up from 205 to 1,835.

Because she picks up the junk no one else wants, Hoker can get a high interest rate for her investment. But when hundreds more bidders enter the fray, she's no longer the only one trolling for junk.

"I'll have to find something else to invest in," Hoker said. "Or find another county that's off-line and hope it's not too far."

Olson, the tax collector, has heard those concerns. But he said his job is to collect delinquent taxes, not ensure the best opportunity for private investors.

"It shouldn't matter to a county tax collector," Olson said. "The duty is to collect the taxes, to have a legal and fair auction and collect as much of the tax roll as you possibly can."

Last week's live auction collected the taxes on 6,616 of Pasco's 7,227 delinquent properties. About 83 percent of those certificates went to financial institutions at a quarter-percent, although Florida law ensures a minimum 5 percent return when the lien is repaid.

Some of the unsold tax certificates could not be sold because the property owner has filed for bankruptcy or the land is homesteaded and the taxes are worth less than $100. That left only 162 tax certificates - about 2 percent of the delinquent properties - that could have been purchased but weren't.

Olson considers that a pretty good success rate and doubts an Internet sale will do much better. But he said an online auction will bring greater efficiency and fairness in picking the winners.

"It is the end of an era in every county that goes to an online sale," Olson said, "but the world changes, and technology changes, and things move forward."; 

"The thirst for knowledge is never quenched," wrote one of the 2006 Barnes Scholarship winners in her application essay. It is that commitment to learning that characterizes the four winners of the 2006 Barnes Scholarships, announced today by the St. Petersburg Times Fund Inc.

The winners are Erin Braden Hendricks of Armwood High School in Hillsborough County, Gregory Horn of H.B. Plant High School in Hillsborough County, Zorana Kojic of Palm Harbor University High School in Pinellas County and Abbey Surrena of Springstead High School in Hernando County.

These two boys and two girls were selected from among 10 finalists interviewed at the newspaper's St. Petersburg office in February. A total of 278 students from public and private high schools in Pinellas, Hillsborough, Pasco, Hernando and Citrus counties had applied.

The scholarships were created in 1999 to help college-bound teens who had overcome significant obstacles in their lives while remaining committed to academic achievement and community involvement.

They were renamed in 2004 to honor former Times chairman and CEO Andrew Barnes upon his retirement.

It was Barnes who had encouraged the establishment of the scholarships.

For each winner, the scholarship is worth as much as $60,000 over four years at an accredited U.S. college or university.

This year, the Barnes program will provide more than $230,000 in financial aid to college students. The fund has been providing scholarships to college students since 1953.

"The selection of these scholarship winners is one of the highlights of every year," said Paul C. Tash, chairman, CEO and editor of the Times and president of the St. Petersburg Times Fund Inc.

"You can't help but feel good about the future when you see such talented and resilient young people. It's our real pleasure to help boost them along life's path toward big things."

Family strife and upheaval affected the childhoods of three of the Barnes winners. Braden Hendricks, 18, and Gregory Horn, 17, were in elementary school when they watched their parents' marriages sour. Ultimately, they ended in divorce. Braden was 12, Greg was 13. The financial impact on their lives was immediate.

Braden Hendricks

Braden went to live with his mother and moved four times in 18 months to households that did not champion his educational goals.

Eventually, Braden's paternal grandparents took him in, providing the emotional, financial and educational support that he needed. His grandfather also taught him to play golf, which has become an important part of his life.

"Golf taught me to be a better person," Braden said in his scholarship interview. "It's the process of learning the finesse of the game: Don't rush the execution. . . . Think. . . . Plan. . . . Be confident. . . . All of this filtered into my character as a person."

When Braden was in the seventh grade, his father got custody, and they moved to southern Illinois and then to Florida.

Although he has a law degree, his father has worked odd jobs so he could spend time with his son.

"He wanted to make sure I came out right," Braden wrote in his application. "Living with my dad has been the best, but we've never really had a lot of money."

Braden has a part-time job to help make ends meet.

Braden is 14th in his class of 384 at Armwood and has received straight A's throughout high school. He is a National Merit Scholarship commended scholar, a Golden Key Scholar and Florida Academic Scholar.

He has played on Armwood's golf team for three years and been captain for two years. He is a member of the National Honor Society, Spanish Honor Society, debate team, Fellowship of Christian Athletes, Mu Alpha Theta, Interact and X-Press, the student literary magazine. He has tutored students in math, science and English and has volunteered in public library and county parks programs.

Braden wants to be a writer and has applied to universities with strong liberal arts programs, including Duke, Harvard and Yale.

Gregory Horn

For Greg, divorce brought financial struggles, but it also brought a more peaceful home environment.

With his sister at college in New York, Greg and his mother lived in an apartment in South Tampa. Because it was severely damaged by flooding during Hurricane Jeanne in September 2004, they had to move out.

Greg wanted to remain at Plant High School, so he moved in with a friend's family. His mother, who has health problems, moved to Pinellas County to live with friends. She and Greg see each other on the weekends.

Through it all, Greg has stayed focused on his goal of being the best he can be. "I set out to continue doing my best, whether that be in school work or as being a good man," he wrote in his application. "Mostly I work, taking each day in stride, allowing things to get just a little easier as time passes."

Greg is valedictorian of his class of 430 at Plant and a National Merit Scholarship commended scholar. He is a Key Scholar and vice president of the National Honor Society, and he has worked as a tutor.;

</file>

<file= AmE06_A32>

''Imagination is more important than knowledge.''

-- Albert Einstein

August is National Investors' Month, a monthlong celebration of ingenuity, sponsored by the United Inventors Association of the USA, the Academy of Applied Science and Inventor's Digest. For more information on the history of National Inventors' Month, inventor's resources and more visit www.inventorsdigest.com.

Below are several great, funny and interesting facts and stories about products and items you may have in your household.

DID YOU KNOW ...

- A workman who left the soap-mixing machine on too long was responsible for making Ivory Soap? Embarrassed by his mistake, the man threw the mess in a stream. Result: Ivory soap, the soap that floats.

- The Band-Aid bandage was invented by a Johnson & Johnson employee whose wife had cut herself? Earl Dickson set out to develop a bandage that his wife could apply without any help. He placed a small piece of gauze in the center of a small piece of surgical tape. Today it is known as the Band-Aid bandage.

- The inventor of the World Wide Web, British-born Tim Berners-Lee, never made money on his invention, which revolutionized the computer world? In 1989 he envisioned a way to link documents on the Internet using ''hypertext'' so ''surfers'' could jump from one document to another through highlighted words. Berners-Lee decided not to patent his technology because he feared that use of the Web would become too expensive.

- Robert Adler has the dubious distinction of being the Father of the Couch Potato? Back in 1955 Adler was employed by what was then Zenith Radio Corp. He was asked to invent something that would allow viewers to turn down the TV volume without leaving their sitting area. After a series of flops, including a wired contraption that people tripped over, Adler's idea finally came by the use of sound waves -- the birth of the remote control.

- Parker Brothers executives turned down the game of Monopoly because it took too long to play and had ''52 fundamental errors.'' The game ended up in the hands of the company president who stayed up all night playing it. He was so impressed by the game that the next day he wrote to inventor Charles Darrow and bought it.

- It was melting ice cream that inspired the invention of the outboard motor? It was a warm summer day when Ole Evinrude rowed his boat to his favorite picnic spot when the ice cream he had with him started to melt. It was at this moment he had wished for a faster way to travel. This event lead to the idea of the outboard motor.

- Two musicians were responsible for the invention of color print film? Leopold Godowsky and Leopold Mannes were fascinated by photography. The two, who were full-time music teachers, worked together in Mannes' kitchen to produce an easy-to-use, practical color film. Their discovery earned them jobs at Kodak and their efforts resulted in Kodachrome film.

- The telescope was accidentally discovered in 1698 when Dutch eyeglass maker Hans Lippershey looked through two lenses -- one held in front of the other -- and realized that the image was magnified?

- The formulas for Cola-Cola and Silly Putty have never been patented? No one has been successful in the duplication of these trade secrets. The secret formula is only shared with selected company employees.

Source: www.inventorsdigest.com

COMMANDMENTS OF INVENTION

- Watch out for invention marketing companies that advertise on radio and late-night TV.

- Always keep good records about your idea(s). You many need this documentation to prove the idea is yours.

- Conduct your own patent search online at www.uspto.gov, or at a Patent Depository Library.

- Build a model, then build another one. Work with the models to make the best you can. No need to get fancy ... use white glue, cardboard or other basic supplies. Prove that your model works, no matter how simple the idea is.

- Take your invention to be evaluated by a non-biased professional. The nonprofit United Inventors Association offers an excellent invention evaluation. For more information, call (585) 359-9310, or visit www.uiausa.org.

- Check out the local bookstore or your library to research everything you can about new product development.

- Join a local inventors' organization. For a list of inventor's organizations to network with, or additional commandments of invention, visit www.inventorsdigest.com.

UPCOMING BACK TO SCHOOL PROGRAM

The Chicago Sun-Times Newspaper In Education department is excited to partner with the Anti-Defamation League to provide a four-week Newspaper in Education program on the Constitution and the First Amendment. Starting Tuesday, Sept. 5, this school page will feature additional information and activities on the importance of the Constitution and the First Amendment. A special educational section sponsored by the Anti-Defamation League also will be included in the program. Schools all across the Chicago metropolitan area in grades 8 to 12 are invited to participate at no cost.

The First Amendment of the U.S. Constitution protects the right of all Americans to express their opinions. And according to the First Amendment Center, it was written because at the time of America's inception, citizens demanded a guarantee of their basic freedoms.

It is considered a blueprint for our personal freedom. Without the First Amendment, religious minorities could be persecuted, the government could establish a national religion and protesters could be silenced. The press would not to be able to criticize government and citizens would be unable to mobilize for social change.

For more information, or to sign your classroom up, please call the Educational Services Department at (312) 321-2280.

REMINDER -- HELP RAISE MONEY FOR EDUCATION

SHARPIE AUTOGRAPHS FOR EDUCATION

What is it?

The Sharpie Autographs for Education program is a national education campaign that enlists the help of professional athletes and celebrities to ask everyday people for their autographs. In exchange for collecting one million autographs, Sharpie will contribute $1 million in school supplies and funds to students, parents and teachers in communities across the country.

How it works:

- Signature Contest: Throughout 2006, 150 schools across the country will vie for the chance to receive $5,000 in school supplies by entering the most signatures from their school.

- Sweepstakes: Students 13 years of age and older can enter a sweepstakes to win a scholarship worth $10,000. Ten students from across the country will be selected. Five were awarded in June, and five more will be awarded in December.

- Special Events: Five prominent events will be held at popular venues throughout the year. Sharpie will distribute $150,000 in supplies and funds among the schools invited to attend these events.

Put your Autograph on Education at Sharpie.com

Anyone can add their signature to the one million autograph collection by signing the virtual autograph wall at www.sharpie.com.

HELP FOR TEACHERS

Teachers can download free lesson plans for their classrooms at www.sharpie.com. Curriculum is available for K-8th grade, on a number of topics relating to autographs -- from famous autographs in history to exploring what your signature says about you.

CATCH THE MOBILE MARKETING TOUR

A fleet of customized Sharpie H2 vehicles will criss-cross the country throughout 2006, stopping in approximately 250 cities at local festivals and special events. The all-terrain vehicles feature interactive games, Sharpie product samples and official entry forms for the signature collection.

SWEEPSTAKES DETAILS

- To enter online, visit any participating retailer, such as Office Max, Office Depot or Staples, to get a sweepstakes number from the tearsheet entry pad. Take the number (or request one online) and complete the online entry form in the Autographs for Education Sweepstakes page at www.sharpie.com.

- To enter by mail, obtain an official registration card with the purchase of a specially marked Sharpie product between Jan. 1 and Dec. 30, 2006. Complete the form and mail to: Sharpie Autograph Collection Sweepstakes Entry, c/o PSM&M, P.O. Box 63742, Philadelphia, PA 19147. All mail-in entries must be postmarked by Dec. 30 and received by Jan. 6, 2007.;

Robert K. Kjellander, a nationally powerful Republican with strong ties to the White House, emerged Friday as a key figure in an ongoing probe of corruption in Illinois.

Kjellander is identified as "Individual K" in a guilty plea by Stuart Levine, a political insider who describes an underworld of behind-the-scenes deal makers who wielded clout to bilk millions of dollars through two state boards.

Levine said he used his connections to steer a $150 million state pension deal to a firm represented by Kjellander, earning Kjellander a lucrative finder's fee. In return, Kjellander allegedly agreed not to bill Levine for lobbying work.

The plea deal does not accuse Kjellander of any wrongdoing, but the mention of him indicates the feds are interested in his actions.

Besides outing Kjellander, Levine provides new detail about alleged actions by Kjellander's former business partner, state GOP powerbroker William Cellini. He says Cellini, identified in the plea as "Individual A," and others schemed "to defraud" Illinois taxpayers. Among those others is Antoin "Tony" Rezko, a former top fund-raiser for Gov. Blagojevich.
Enhanced Coverage LinkingGov. Blagojevich. -Search using:
News, Most Recent 60 Days
Biographies Plus News

'A PATTERN OF WRONGDOING'

The government indicted Rezko on Oct. 11, but Cellini has not been charged.

Blagojevich, who reappointed Levine to seats on state teacher pension and health boards, said Levine's plea proves he knew nothing about Levine's dirty deals and kickbacks. The plea does not accuse Blagojevich of any wrongdoing.

"Today's news reveals a pattern of wrongdoing by Stuart Levine that betrayed the trust of [former GOP] Gov. [Jim] Edgar, who first appointed him, and to all of us here in Illinois," Blagojevich said. "Anyone who violates the public trust should be held accountable for their actions."

Still, Levine's plea reaches into the governor's inner circle.

It places Rezko in the center of schemes to make money from pension deals by allegedly forcing companies to pay kickbacks and hide them as consulting fees.

It also accuses top Blagojevich fund-raiser Christopher G. Kelly -- "Individual B" -- of helping Levine, Rezko and Cellini shake down an investment firm seeking business with the state for $1.5 million in campaign contributions to Blagojevich.

Though Kjellander and Cellini are longtime Republicans, they have fared well under Blagojevich, a Democrat. Kjellander made $809,133 as a consultant on a massive state bond deal in 2003. The Cellini family's investment firm, Commonwealth Realty, has been entrusted with investing $340 million in pension cash since Blagojevich took office.

Levine admits schemes

Cellini and Kjellander did not return calls. A call to Kelly's lawyer was not returned.

Commonwealth issued a statement that the firm "is not aware of the [Levine] allegations but its employees are remaining focused on serving their clients' investment needs."

In his plea agreement, Levine, 60, of Highland Park admits to hatching the kickback schemes while he was a board member of the Teachers Retirement System (TRS), where firms competed for investment deals worth millions of dollars. He also detailed schemes he pulled while a member of the Illinois Health Facilities Planning Board.

Levine raked in "millions" from the crooked deals, according to his lawyer. Levine and others allegedly plotted to steal as much as $50 million though they actually pocketed much less.

"Stuart Levine was a legitimate hardworking and successful businessman before he got involved with these boards," Levine attorney Jeffrey Steinback said. "You can become intoxicated with the ether of power and the ether of money."

Under terms of his deal, Levine would serve 5oe years in prison, far less than the life sentence he could have faced. A federal judge either has to accept that prison term or reject the entire deal.

Pressure to cut a deal is now on Rezko, who prosecutors say faces at least 14 years in prison if convicted in just one of two cases against him.

Prosecutors have said they have substantial evidence against Rezko, including recordings where Rezko can be heard discussing allegedly illicit deals.;

</file>

<file= AmE06_A33>

Think globally, act locally. That's the message as more and more communities turn to nonbinding ballot initiatives to chime in on national and foreign policy. In Wisconsin last week, residents of 24 counties passed resolutions calling for U.S. troops to pull out of Iraq, joining dozens of towns in Vermont that have passed similar measures. Seven states--Alaska, Arizona, Colorado, Hawaii, Maine, Montana and Vermont--and nearly 400 counties have voted either to criticize or ignore the Patriot Act. Come November, voters in localities across the U.S. will be asked to say yea or nay to affirmative action, abortion and embryonic-stem-cell research. "All of these are very personal issues. Who better to decide them than citizens themselves?" asks Archon Fung, a government professor at Harvard. "This is true direct democracy."
Except, of course, that these resolutions have only symbolic power--and real policy change still has to come from state and federal governments. "Referendums are the protest vehicle for the new century," says Elizabeth Garrett, director of U.S.C.'s Initiative and Referendum Institute. "People are dissatisfied with federal leadership, and voting is the best way they know to voice it." Lawmakers rarely take heed of such ballot measures, but maybe they should. The initiatives bring voters to the polls--turnout in Baraboo, Wis., tripled this election cycle. "More votes," says Garrett, "is a message politicians on every level understand."
America could really use a civics lesson. And it's about to get one. The National Conference on Citizenship, a federally chartered nonprofit founded in 1946 to strengthen civic ties, will release the first Civic Health Index next week, tracking changes in the awareness and engagement of the citizenry over the past three decades. It presents a bleak picture--steep declines in most of the 40 measures that were analyzed, including how much people trust one another and major institutions, and their connections to their communities. The index offers a couple of bright spots: more citizens, especially young ones, vote now than in the disco era; and although volunteering has flattened out since spiking after 9/11, it's still on the rise among those between the ages of 16 and 24.
Still, we find it alarming that a country that is so prosperous, free and secure shows such serious signs of weakness in its civic infrastructure, especially at a time when it most needs that strength. The growing polarization of its politics has made compromise and unity on crucial matters far more difficult. Indeed, people's trust in others has declined even as their voting has climbed, suggesting that they're using the ballot to protect personal interests rather than out of a sense of shared responsibility. Americans are keenly aware of the fissures in society. Our surveys find that 96% believe the nation is deeply divided along economic lines, as many as say we are equally split along political ones.
So what's to be done? First, get a sharper picture of where we stand. The U.S. routinely collects minutely detailed information to gauge the vitality of its economy. This new index is the beginning of an effort to do the same for its civic life. With this data, we can begin to seriously debate and ultimately fashion robust policies to fix our communal machinery. As Congress geared up for this week's hearings on the Sago mine accident, which killed 12 coalworkers earlier this month, disaster struck another West Virginia mine. A fire at Alma No. 1 last week left two people dead--and put new pressure on the federal Mine Safety and Health Administration (MSHA), which regulates mining operations. House Democrats are asking whether MSHA oversight has been not only weaker but also more secretive under the Bush Administration. Sago was cited for 208 alleged safety violations in 2005, Alma No. 1 for 95. In the past, the MSHA made its inspectors' full notes public, but since 2004, it has released only briefer citations. Critics say the inspectors' notes provide more information on conditions in dangerous mines. Representative Henry Waxman, top Democrat on the House Government Reform Committee, has sent a letter to Labor Secretary Elaine Chao--whose department oversees the MSHA--arguing that if the inspector notes for the Sago citations had been disclosed, "it is possible that lifesaving reforms could have been identified and put in place." Waxman tells TIME, "The Administration's obsession with secrecy is literally endangering lives." Mine-inspection officials dispute such allegations, insisting enough information on safety infractions is made public. An MSHA official explained that the policy change made procedures "consistent with [those of] other enforcement agencies."

Bill Clinton
In our increasingly interdependent world, we have seen the terrifying power of individuals to do great harm. Yet there is a more hopeful side of this interconnected age: private citizens have never had more power to advance the common good and secure a brighter future.
Three developments have dramatically increased the potential of individuals to be agents of change: for the first time more than half the people in the world live under democracies; the spread of information technology has empowered individuals to pool their resources and make common cause at a speed and on a scale previously unprecedented; and, finally, nongovernmental organizations, or NGOs, have grown and become important agents of assistance. During the responses to Hurricane Katrina and the tsunami in Southeast Asia, citizen power was on full display, as the Internet provided a conduit through which enormous sums of money flowed from millions of people of modest means.
I created the Clinton Global Initiative (CGI) to accelerate that kind of activity and to offer a new model for philanthropy in the 21st century. For three days in September, CGI brings together some of the world's best minds and problem solvers. It functions like a marketplace for global change, where those with the passion to make a difference--and others with the means to finance them--come together. Each attendee is asked to make a pledge of resources, time or leadership.
At this year's meeting, Richard Branson grabbed headlines by pledging to invest all future proceeds of his Virgin Group's airline and train businesses to fight global warming. But other commitments with smaller budgets were similarly designed to have a real impact. The Global Partnership for Afghanistan pledged to launch 100 commercially viable orchard and woodlot businesses. The Sanam Vaziri Quraishi Foundation partnered with child-rights activist Craig Kielburger to "adopt a village" in the Masai Mara of Kenya. With an investment of only $68,000 in the first year, they will help change the lives of 1,000 children and adults.
CGI is still in its infancy, but in two years, hundreds of commitments have been made, totaling almost $10 billion. That is a testament to the concern and generosity of the leaders and activists from around the globe who have attended CGI. But I believe it also reflects a growing realization that in today's world we all have a responsibility to influence change. The future our children inherit depends on whether or not we will act accordingly.
Laura Bush and Jean Case
Consider the scene in Boikarabelo, South Africa. It's 10 o'clock in the morning in this village outside Johannesburg, home to some 300 children, many of whom have lost their parents to AIDS. Time for recess is approaching. After hours of morning instruction, the children are ready to burst forth into the schoolyard--eager to run, jump and take a spin on the merry-go-round.
Yet there is more going on here than meets the eye--and the American people play a key role in the story. The merry-go-round is not just a simple piece of playground equipment. It's a PlayPump water system. Lack of access to clean water is one of Africa's biggest health challenges. Through technology developed by an African entrepreneur, the children are pumping clean water for their village when they turn the merry-go-round.
How can we spread wonderful innovations like that? U.S. support for Africa has more than tripled during the Bush Administration, yet even the most dedicated governments can't meet all the needs of the developing world. We can do more when each sector is doing what it does best. The private sector can lead with innovation and capital. Nonprofit groups can apply solutions where they're needed most. And governments can help expand these solutions on a global scale.
Last week we announced a partnership with the U.S. government and the Case Foundation to install 4,000 water pumps in 10 African nations, bringing clean water to as many as 10 million people. That same spirit of innovation is showing up in other public-private collaborations. In partnership with the Pfizer drug company, the U.S. is working to tackle tuberculosis, malaria and HIV/AIDS. In partnership with Starbucks and the government of Rwanda, the U.S. supports farmers developing specialty coffee. The U.S. helps rebuild the country's infrastructure and coffee-washing stations, while Starbucks provides training and expertise to improve Rwandan coffee cultivation.
Cooperation between governments and citizens isn't just smart policy. It's our best hope for fulfilling the moral obligation of decent societies and caring individuals to end the suffering of millions around the world.
One hundred years ago America had its most popular President since George Washington. TR, as Theodore Roosevelt was popularly known, captured, to an extraordinary degree, the imagination of the American people. At the same time, he also captured the respect of much of the world, culminating with his being awarded the Nobel Peace Prize for helping negotiate peace between Russia and Japan.
There is much Washington could learn from studying Theodore Roosevelt. Paying little regard to either the Republican or Democratic bosses, he was a natural maverick who did what he thought was right. A passionate believer in technology, TR, in 1902, became the first President to ride in an automobile  -  something for which at the time, he was praised by the newspapers as an act of courage and foresight.
TR was also a deep believer in the moral power of reform. He was a reform police commissioner in New York City, a reform leader of the Civil Service Commission and a reform Governor of New York. He knew that modern society required honesty, transparency and accountability. His commitment to reform was so great that the New York Republican bosses promoted him for the Vice Presidency simply to get him out of Albany. Little did they know what a reformer they were about to foist on the nation.
After less than a year as Vice President, TR found himself the youngest President in American history, after President William McKinley was assassinated at the Pan-American Exposition in Buffalo, New York. As Mark Hanna, the leading Republican politician of the era lamented, "Now look  -  that damn cowboy is president."
One area of reform that Republicans and Democrats alike could learn from was TR's approach to the environment. He understood that conservative and conservation have the same root and he was passionately committed to conserving America's natural resources for future generations. Most Republicans would do well to study his commitment to national parks, national forests, and the management of the natural world. On the other hand, Democrats would do just as well to note that Theodore Roosevelt saw man as part of nature and not as its opponent. As a rancher, big game hunter, fisherman and perhaps the most outdoor President in American history, TR believed that conservation included land use and not merely its preservation. I believe he would have resoundingly advocated a multiple use approach to Federal lands.
TR was President during a period of enormous stress over immigration and the meaning of being an American. He was unequivocally for control of immigration and for encouraging immigrants who wanted to be American while opposing those who would radically change America. As TR put it, "In the first place we should insist that if the immigrant who comes here in good faith becomes an American and assimilates himself to us, he shall be treated on an exact equality with everyone else, for it is an outrage to discriminate against any such man because of creed, or birthplace, or origin."

</file>

<file= AmE06_A34>

If you were given one wish -- and $100,000 and access to some of the top thinkers in technology, entertainment and the arts -- what would you wish for? 
That's the premise of the Ted prize, a potentially world- changing award given to some of the same sorts of big-idea people who populate the exclusive annual Technology, Entertainment, Design conference in Monterey. 
This year's winners were announced Monday night in San Francisco -- and in March, those at the conference will find out the big wishes of former President Bill Clinton, Harvard biologist E.O. Wilson and Time magazine photojournalist James Nachtwey. 
The organization, led by former publishing entrepreneur Chris Anderson, has a panel of judges who select the winners based on nominations from members. No one applies for a Ted prize; no one knows their wishes in advance. The winners are announced now so that they can use the next several months to formulate their wishes. The organization supports the winners in making their dreams come true. 
Although the prize is only 3 years old, it's already paid some big dividends. Rock star Bono, who won the first year (when the prize came with three wishes), was able to get more than 1 million people to sign up for his organization that advocates debt relief in Africa. He also produced ads online and on television reaching more than 2 billion people. 
What might Clinton wish for? Chances are he already has the money and the contacts to make things happen, and he's been working on a variety of issues through his foundation: AIDS, global warming, hunger, health and urban problems. 
Or maybe he just wants his wife to be president. 
The wishes don't come with any restrictions. 
"Ted is a nonpartisan group," said a spokesperson for Anderson, who calls himself Ted's curator. "The judges awarded the Ted Prize to President Clinton not for his political views, but on account of his astonishing achievements since leaving office." 
Anderson called Wilson "biology's most inspiring voice" and said that Nachtwey's "pictures are in a class of their own." 
They have also thought big. Wilson is one of the leading scientists examining humans' impact on the natural world and the importance of biodiversity. Nachtwey travels to the world's worst danger spots, shining a light on wars and famines. 
Last year's winners had a distinctively Bay Area flair, led by Dr. Larry Brilliant of Mill Valley, who had helped fight smallpox and blindness in developing nations and is now the head of Google.org, the philanthropic arm of the Mountain View Internet giant. 
When he received the award last year, Brilliant was working to prevent a potential avian flu pandemic, and he wished for a powerful early-warning system to keep pandemics from spreading. 
He's already got an organization up and running, International Networked System for Total Early Disease Detection, and is pulling together experts on the Internet, medicine, disaster preparedness and business to get a response ready for whatever worldly ill might arise. 
Another winner last year was Cameron Sinclair, co-founder and executive director of Architecture for Humanity, a nonprofit group that looks to provide design solutions to humanitarian crises. 
This year, Sinclair has been focused on rebuilding the post- Katrina Gulf Coast and the areas of Southeast Asia ravaged by the tsunami. 
Sinclair wished for an open-source architecture network that would enable designs to be spread quickly through the developing world, using the open-source software model. 
"The Ted prize allowed us to generate a new way of working so we could scale up," Sinclair, 32, said Monday. 
Not only that, but contacts he made at the conference, which he had never heard of before, paid off in his short-term efforts as well. Palm executives provided him with Treo phones, which have come in useful in his group's post-Katrina work, and Dr. Dean Ornish, who has done groundbreaking work on reversing heart disease through diet and exercise, offered him free office space in Sausalito. 
"Most organizations have 5-, 10- or 15-year plans," Sinclair said. "This has allowed us to speed up a little bit. Some of the things we thought could take us 15 years will take us only two or three." 

The U.S. economy clocked a sluggish growth rate in the June- through-September period, starkly demonstrating the effect of the slumping housing sector. 
Gross domestic product rose 1.6 percent in the third quarter, the weakest growth rate in three years, the Commerce Department estimated Friday. The increase fell short of the 2.1 percent growth rate economists had expected. 
In the first quarter of 2006, GDP was up at a robust 5.6 percent rate, while for the second quarter it was a 2.6 percent rate. 
"Housing, as we expected, was one of the big drags on GDP," said Steve Cochrane, senior economist at Moody's Economy.com, a forecasting service in Pennsylvania. "It's very clear housing is the primary cause right now of the economic slowdown." 
Investment in residential real estate fell 17.4 percent, the biggest dip since early 1991 and the fourth consecutive quarter of decline. 
Gross domestic product, which tallies the value of all goods and services produced in the United States, is considered the best gauge of the country's economic health. 
On Wall Street, investors appeared spooked by the report. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 73.40 points to close at 12,090.26. 
With the Nov. 7 midterm election just over a week away, a bigger question is how voters will react. 
The White House mustered an array of voices to explain away the numbers. 
"Everyone expected this," said White House press secretary Tony Snow. "You have a combination of rising energy prices and also rising interest rates, and now you've seen a reverse on both." 
Some economists were unfazed by the softening numbers. 
"My feeling is this is the worst of it," said Peter Morici, a professor at the University of Maryland School of Business. "It's a reflection of the new economy. We don't have recessions anymore. We just have growth slowdowns." 
There were several bright spots. 
Corporate profits continue to be strong. Inflation had throttled back to 2 percent, following a 4 percent rise in the second quarter. Excluding food and energy, inflation was 1.9 percent after increasing 2.9 percent in the second quarter. Real disposable income was up 3.7 percent, following the second quarter's 1.7 percent increase. 
And consumers evidentially were not yet tightening their belts. Personal consumption expenditures were up 3.1 percent in the third quarter, following a 2.6 percent increase in the second quarter. Durable goods orders rose 8.4 percent, after having fallen 0.1 percent. 
"The consumer seems to be quite resilient," Morici said. "While they might not be buying bigger houses and spending money on cars, they're spending money in other places, like white goods (major kitchen and laundry appliances), computers and so forth. It portends a good holiday season." 
A separate report issued Friday showed consumers feeling more upbeat about the economy than they had in some time. The University of Michigan consumer sentiment index was up to 93.6 from 85.4 in September. 
Analysts said the Commerce report seemed likely to bolster the Federal Reserve's recent moves to leave interest rates unchanged after a long campaign of tightening and could even spur the Fed to lower interest rates next year. 
While California, which had a major run-up in real-estate prices, is likely to feel the pain of the housing slowdown, experts said the state's economy is well cushioned in other ways. 
"California, like New York, will have a bigger adjustment in home values because it had a bigger boom," Morici said. "But you can take it, as can New York, because you had so much appreciation." 
But unlike the Midwest and Southeast, California has such strong economic diversity that it can withstand some problems, he said. 
"California has a very resilient economy because of the entertainment business, Silicon Valley, the vineyards," Morici said. "Those kind of things tend to be less cyclical. I think California will know the economy has slowed like getting up one morning and feeling a little queasy, but then you get through it fast. Whereas in the Midwest, they'll get up and feel sick the whole day, but it won't be a terrible illness." 
Friday's report was what is called the advance estimate the Commerce Department produces quickly. It will issue revised numbers for the third quarter based on more comprehensive data on Nov. 29. 

Six years ago, at the height of the Internet boom, Eric Ryan's friends laughed at him as he turned down one dot-com job offer after another to start a company in the stodgy, low-tech business of household cleaning products. 
Today, many of those dot-coms are long gone. 
And Ryan's company, San Francisco's Method Products, was recently named the seventh fastest-growing private company in America by Inc. magazine. 
Method, with its minimalist design and trendy-looking soap bottles shaped like teardrops and bowling pins, is a familiar sight to shoppers at stores such as Target, Safeway and Office Depot. 
Its revenue of about $45 million is just a drop in the wash- bucket compared with long-standing industry giants like Clorox, which had total sales of $4.4 billion in 2005. 
But Method has managed to grow prodigiously at a time when the cleaning products industry overall is largely stagnant. 
And the young company's determination to shake things up is changing practices within the industry, as well as turning heads in the design world. 
"Method has reoriented how people perceive these household cleaning products that they used to shove under the sink," said Hsaio-Yun Chin, an assistant professor of industrial design at San Francisco State University. "It's very sexy. It's something you can display proudly on top of your sink. It's another accessory to "cool," almost a lifestyle item rather than a cleaning item." 
Today, Method has 132 products -- everything from pink grapefruit cleaning spray to cucumber-lemon dishwasher cubes, mint window washing liquid and vanilla-apple air fresheners. 
But six years ago, the company was little more than a wild idea shared by two high school buddies from Michigan who were rooming together in San Francisco. 
Ryan, now 33, was working in advertising and his friend Adam Lowry, now 32, was a chemical engineer who had worked for a foundation researching global warming. The two were intrigued by companies like Apple Computer Inc. that had used a cutting-edge design sensibility to become industry leaders. 
"We started to discuss different industries that needed to be reinvented from a design standpoint and from an environmental standpoint," Lowry said. 
The two became intrigued by household cleaning products. It is a huge industry, with annual sales of about $18 billion. But it hadn't changed much since the 1950s. Companies talked mostly about how well their products killed germs; brands like Cascade and Comet changed little from decade to decade. 
"The household cleaning aisle was so big, yet everything was so boring," Ryan said. 
Ryan and Lowry decided to create a brand of household cleaning products that would appeal to the fashion sensibilities of hip, young urbanites. 
"Your house is this high-interest, high-emotion place, but the products people used for it were just commodities," Ryan said. "We were the first ones to treat cleaning as cool. The category treats it as a chore, and to a lot of people it is a chore -- but it's also therapeutic, a ritual, with a sense of purpose to it. Method is very much about design, fragrance, the romance of it and trying to tie (cleaning) back to your home." 
They started working with exotic scents like cucumber, lavender and mandarin orange. They developed a sleek, uncluttered style for their bottles and labels. They looked for nontoxic, non-polluting ingredients, although they consciously decided not to market themselves as a "green" brand. 
"There are plenty of eco-brands out there, but it's a very small category," Ryan said. "If you go out and call yourself a green cleaner, you'll just steal shelf space from Seventh Generation."

</file>

<file= AmE06_A35>

AMMAN, Jordan - The U.S.'s next steps in Middle East diplomacy appear to include speeding the transfer of Iraqi security forces from American to local control and stepping up efforts toward renewed Israeli-Palestinian talks.

But obstacles emerged on both fronts yesterday, as President Bush, on a visit here, made clear he will resist calls to change his Iraq policy and Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice appeared to leave it to Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas to determine the next move in that peace process.

Mr. Bush used a meeting with Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki to lay down a marker ahead of the official release next week of a report by a bipartisan commission, headed by former Secretary of State James A. Baker III and former Democratic Rep. Lee Hamilton, that has been exploring new U.S. strategies for stabilizing a nation badly torn by sectarian violence and for bringing home U.S. troops.

The findings will call for the U.S. to begin gradually drawing down the approximately 140,000 American combat troops now in Iraq -- though without a specific timeline -- and to engage in direct negotiations with leaders in neighboring Iran and Syria, which are believed to be helping fuel the strife, said a member of the panel. (See related article on Page A8.) Details of the panel's recommendations were reported in the New York Times yesterday.

Asked when Mr. Bush would begin acting on the report, White House National Security Adviser Stephen Hadley told reporters on Air Force One returning from Jordan there was no timetable per se.

"It's really going to be when the president is comfortable in his own mind as to where he wants to go, and when we've been able to have the kind of discussion with the Iraqis so we can be sure that it is going to be a common plan between the Iraqi government and the United States government for success," he said.

White House officials have said the U.S. is open to considering negotiations with Tehran and Damascus if the two drop their support for Hezbollah and other militant groups. Despite a growing sense Mr. Bush might use the report from the Iraq Study Group as political cover for beginning a U.S. troop withdrawal, he said yesterday talk of an imminent drawdown "simply has no realism to it at all."

"I know there's a lot of speculation that these reports in Washington mean there's going to be some kind of a graceful exit out of Iraq," he said. "We're going to stay in Iraq to get the job done."

Meanwhile, Ms. Rice met briefly with Mr. Abbas in Jericho in the Palestinian territories before heading to Jerusalem for even shorter sessions with top Israeli officials. Though she publicly declared her desire to "accelerate our efforts and intensify our efforts" to bring about peace, little new appeared to be gained from the talks. She declined to cite concrete plans for what should come next in the Israeli-Palestinian peace process, beyond trying to sustain this week's fragile cease-fire for the Gaza Strip, which has experienced months of bloodshed.

Mr. Abbas declared as all but dead talks aimed at replacing the Palestinian Authority's current Hamas-led government with a caretaker regime. The move, pushed by the U.S. for months, is seen as a precondition for almost any Palestinian progress. Washington cannot legally deal with or financially support a government led by Hamas, which is designated as a foreign terrorist organization under U.S. law.

But Ms. Rice told reporters last night that the Gaza cease-fire deal, along with an olive branch extended by Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert during a speech Monday, was "not a bad set of events to take place," during a short timeframe. She also said gaining progress in the moribund peace process "is the kind of thing that takes time."

In Jordan, Mr. Bush said the U.S. would step up efforts to give Mr. Maliki more control over Iraq's military and security forces and work to expand U.S. military training for them. For his part, Mr. Maliki said he believed Iraqi forces would be ready to take full control of security by June.

But while Messrs. Bush and Maliki both said it was necessary to speed the handover of security responsibility, senior U.S. military officials caution that big barriers remain to achieving this. The Iraqi Army and police forces remain rife with corruption, and embedded U.S. advisers regularly complain that because the U.S. doesn't control the Iraqi ministries, they can't get corrupt Army and police officers fired or replaced.

The availability of more advisers also is uncertain. U.S. military officials say they are committed to increasing the number of advisers working with Iraqi Army and police forces, but the Army and Marine Corps are already stretched thin. Moreover, some military officials say that adding more advisers without giving them the power to remove incompetent or corrupt officers won't lead to significantly better results.

Mr. Bush again rejected calls to divide Iraq into three semi-autonomous regions and said U.S. forces would remain in Iraq indefinitely. He also offered a strong endorsement to the embattled Mr. Maliki, hailing him as the "right guy for Iraq."

U.S. officials said the meetings between the two leaders went well, but the hastily planned summit produced few results. The two met just one day after Mr. Maliki abruptly canceled a planned three-way meeting Wednesday night with Mr. Bush and King Abdullah of Jordan. The move came after the disclosure in the New York Times of a memo written by Mr. Hadley asserting that the Iraqi premier was "either ignorant of what is going on, misrepresenting his intentions or that his capabilities are not yet sufficient to turn his good intentions into actions."

Mr. Bush went out of his way to praise Mr. Maliki, a clear attempt to soothe the Iraqi leader's feelings after the leak.; 

San Francisco -- GOV. ARNOLD Schwarzenegger took on infrastructure problems in California earlier this year. Now, he is turning to another challenge: health care in the Golden State.

Mr. Schwarzenegger has been huddling with advisers in the past few weeks to come up with a plan to provide health coverage to the state's 6.5 million uninsured and underinsured. Details of the strategy haven't been announced. He has signaled that in his annual State of the State address Jan. 9 he will make health care the top priority for 2007 and likely include a plan to cover the uninsured.

While people involved with the effort say details could take months to hammer out, the fact that Mr. Schwarzenegger plans to spotlight health care when his second term begins in January is likely to boost national attention on one of the most intractable policy dilemmas facing the entire country.

In an opinion piece in the Los Angeles Daily News on Monday, the governor said the problem of the uninsured is "devastating to our economy and working families," citing those reasons as why "fixing our broken health-care system is my number one priority for 2007."

Massachusetts this year passed legislation to provide nearly universal health-care coverage to state residents, but policy observers say that a measure in California -- where the number of uninsured roughly equals the Massachusetts population -- would have a more sweeping effect. California has been a leader in addressing national issues; earlier this year, a bill signed by Mr. Schwarzenegger set the toughest limits in the country on greenhouse gases linked to global warming.

"I think a successful health-care plan in California would begin to be the catalyst to change the country's health-care system," says Andrew Stern, president of the Service Employees International Union, which has 1.8 million members nationwide. "People look at California as almost its own country, with all the complexities any state could find."

The Schwarzenegger speech will come as Democrats, who plan to make expanding health-care coverage a priority, take over Congress. One of Mr. Schwarzenegger's fellow Republican governors, Mitt Romney of Massachusetts, is making his state's plan for expanding health-insurance coverage a centerpiece of his 2008 presidential bid.

Two factors driving the debate, nationally and in California, are the cost of health care and public concern about affordability. National expenditures on health care have doubled in the past decade, and are projected to double again in the next 10 years, according to federal estimates.

In July, Mr. Schwarzenegger convened a summit on health-care affordability in Los Angeles, where representatives from hospitals, labor unions, insurers and others debated how to contain costs of medical coverage. "The spiraling cost of health care is nearing the breaking point -- not just in California but across the nation," Mr. Schwarzenegger said at the time. "We must find ways to lower the cost of health care. We cannot continue as we have."

Others at the summit agreed on the need to streamline administrative costs by computerizing more medical records, says Kim Belshe, secretary of California's health and human-services agency. Many doctors and their assistants still rely on paper files. The governor signed an order over the summer calling for a program to improve the flow of information in the industry.

But there is disagreement in California, and across the U.S., over what else to do. One approach, favored by some labor unions and social advocacy groups, entails a "single payer" -- like the system in the United Kingdom and elsewhere. Under a "single payer" system, consumer medical bills are paid by a government agency, not by private health insurers or others. This year, the California Legislature passed a bill introduced by Democratic Sen. Sheila Kuehl that would have provided universal health-care coverage to state residents through such a system operated by the state. But Mr. Schwarzenegger vetoed the bill, saying "such a program would cost the state billions and lead to significant new taxes on individuals and businesses."

That stance could make it difficult for the governor to forge a bipartisan deal, as he did in getting a bond package passed on the ballot last month to finance rebuilding of state roads, bridges and other infrastructure. Already, the California Nurses Association -- an old foe of the governor from when he took on union interests in a series of failed ballot measures in 2005 -- has derided the coming plan in advance as "Schwarzencare."

"What his plan will probably consist of is to shift the cost of health care more onto individuals and leave no responsibility on corporations," says Rose Ann DeMoro, executive director of the nurses' union.

Mr. Schwarzenegger has said he is keeping an open mind as he shapes the effort. "Every idea is being debated: market-based solutions, employer mandates, individual mandates, new regulations, removing old regulations," he wrote in this week's opinion piece. Aides to the governor say he isn't inclined to use taxes to pay for universal health care.

Some of the governor's political opponents have pledged to work with him. Mr. Stern of the Service Employees International Union says he has agreed to provide input to Mr. Schwarzenegger despite the hostility some other union officials feel. "This is a problem that is so important to our country," Mr. Stern says. "If the governor looks to have a bipartisan approach, I think there are a lot of people who want to get this situation fixed."

Mr. Schwarzenegger also has some powerful allies in the Democratic-dominated legislature, including Don Perata, president of the state Senate. Mr. Perata, who was instrumental in helping the governor get his infrastructure measure through, has come up with a compromise approach that some observers say the governor might be able to build on. Mr. Perata earlier this month offered a plan under which employers and their employees would share the costs to provide coverage only to the state's working families.

Mr. Perata says the governor called afterward to thank him, but hasn't given specifics about his own plan. Still, the senator says he is confident a deal will be reached. "The fact that he understands that we will continue to work together or we won't work at all is a huge advantage," Mr. Perata says.;

</file>

<file= AmE06_A36>

When the vacancy opened in 1997, then-Gov. Zell Miller asked his trusted House floor leader, Thurbert Baker, to be Georgia's first black attorney general.

Baker agreed and during his nine years at the helm of the state's Law Department, he has distinguished himself by taking on Big Tobacco, fighting identity fraud and infuriating Gov. Sonny Perdue.

Baker angered the governor by defying Perdue's edict to drop an appeal of a redistricting case. His refusal created a constitutional showdown --- which Baker won --- and made him a target of the GOP, which wants to capture all statewide offices on the ballot this year.

As he seeks re-election, Baker finds himself in familiar territory --- facing a stiff challenge by a Republican opponent. In 1998 and in 2002, in his only election campaigns to keep his job, Baker defeated Republican opposition.

Douglasville lawyer Perry McGuire, a former state senator, entered the race against Baker last year after campaigning for secretary of state for a year as a candidate. He dropped out of the secretary of state race after the Republican primary field became crowded with high-profile opposition.

Additionally, McGuire said, the state GOP asked him to shift his focus to attorney general. "It seemed a natural fit and transition," McGuire, a former corporate counsel for Chick-fil-A, said earlier this week.

McGuire is sure to benefit from being a member of a Republican ticket led by a popular governor. But Baker has raised almost $3 million to finance his campaign and, at the end of September, had more than $1.8 million cash on hand for the final weeks of the campaign. McGuire had raised $776,000 and reported $526,000 left to spend.

McGuire is attacking Baker on the issues and has succeeded in putting the incumbent on the defensive. His TV ad claims that Baker's office bungled the appeal of a 1984 Houston County murder case --- which Baker claims was lost at the trial level, not because of the appeal. McGuire also has condemned Baker for not taking a more hands-on approach to his job.

"He's really been AWOL in his office, a benchwarmer," McGuire said. "He's never personally argued a case as attorney general. I think that's pretty indefensible."

Even though McGuire, as a private attorney, has never argued a case at the appellate level, he vows to do so if he wins on Election Day. "I feel very comfortable debating the issues," he said.

McGuire's platform includes initiatives to help local district attorneys prosecute death penalty cases and other defendants charged with violent crimes. He also wants to get state law enforcement more involved in enforcing federal immigration laws against illegal aliens, citing Cobb County's recent initiative to crack down on illegal immigrants as an example of what should be done.

If elected, McGuire said the AG's office will be "the very hand of God" to those who prey on the elderly with insurance and investment scams and to those who commit violent crime. "You cannot hide, you will not be coddled and you will not escape justice," McGuire said when announcing his campaign.

"If we have to build a hundred prisons to clean up our streets, I say let's do it."

McGuire said he will continue to wage an aggressive campaign. "I want to show the voters that he's had nine years to lead and he simply hasn't done it," he said.

Baker, current president of the National Association of Attorneys General, counters that he has accomplished a great deal. "I believe voters in this state recognize campaign rhetoric as opposed to fact," he said in a recent interview.

Baker said he deserves credit for including Georgia among the states suing the tobacco industry to recover the medical costs of smoking-related illnesses.

Georgia so far has collected more than $1 billion from a settlement of the case and is projected to receive much more. The state also saved tens of millions of dollars in attorneys fees because of his decision to use in-house lawyers instead of private attorneys, Baker said.

As attorney general, Baker said, he helped draft the nation's first residential mortgage fraud statute.

It has been a crime-fighting tool for local district attorneys and now is being used by the attorney general's office to prosecute more than 20 people, including closing attorneys and real estate agents, in an alleged scam involving the Millford Hills subdivision in Clarke County.

The past year has been a busy one for the 106-lawyer AG's office.

Its lawyers successfully defended the state amendment banning gay marriage and now are litigating challenges to the state's voter ID and sex offender laws. Baker, whose office has a wealth of experienced lawyers, said he will continue to use them to defend laws passed by the state Legislature.

"My opponent may be more interested in grandstanding; I'm just interested in getting the job done," Baker said, noting that as a private attorney he personally argued numerous cases at the trial court and appellate levels.

"In the job I have now, it is important to keep in mind that putting experienced lawyers on the floor every day to handle those important issues is more important than whose face shows up on the 6 o'clock news."; 
Washington --- Ehren Watada is a soldier who doesn't want to fight in Iraq.

Watada, 28, an Army first lieutenant based at Fort Lewis, Wash., insists that he is not a conscientious objector. He has even offered to fight in Afghanistan. But he contends that agreeing to fight in Iraq would violate his oath as a soldier to resist "unlawful orders."

At a June 7 news conference, Watada denounced the war and accused the Bush administration of lying in order to start it. As a result, the Army formally charged Watada last week with publicly declaring the war "illegal," criticizing the president and refusing to deploy to Iraq with his unit last month.

Watada's case, his attorney says, raises important questions about the First Amendment rights of soldiers and what punishment they should face for questioning the actions and orders of superiors.

The Army, and some legal experts, say Watada does not have the right to openly criticize the war in a way that would be contemptuous toward a superior officer, including the commander in chief. He also does not have the right to disobey an order to fight, they say.

Watada, wearing civilian clothes at his news conference at a Tacoma, Wash., church, told reporters that he had researched the evidence for going to war in Iraq and concluded that the country entered the war under false pretenses.

"The war in Iraq violates our democratic system of checks and balances," he said, according to military charging documents released by the Army. "The wholesale slaughter and mistreatment of the Iraqi people is not only a terrible moral injustice, but a contradiction to the Army's own law of land warfare. My participation would make me party to war crimes."

In addition, Watada said he became "ashamed of wearing the uniform" after reading about "the level of deception the Bush administration used to initiate . . . this war."

The next day, Watada's superior officer told him that those statements could be considered "unbecoming of an officer and a gentleman" and "contemptuous" against a superior officer --- both violations of the Uniform Code of Military Justice, according to Eric Seitz, Watada's lawyer.

Now that Watada has been charged, the next step is for an Army officer to conduct a pretrial inquiry known as an Article 32 investigation, which is similar to a grand jury investigation in civilian criminal courts.

The officer will review the charges and hold a hearing on evidence. If the officer agrees with the charges, he will order a court martial.

If Watada is convicted, he could face seven years in a military prison, forfeiture of all pay and a dishonorable discharge.

"You can't decide afterward that it's unlawful," said Sheldon Smith, an Army spokesman at the Pentagon. Commissioned officers are expected to weigh their personal feelings against the well-being of the troops they are appointed to command, he said.

Watada's words and refusal to deploy could cause other soldiers to think negatively about the war, Smith said. "What message does it send? They are putting their lives on the line to do what is honorable, and the man who is supposed to be in charge of them is backing out?" 

Legal experts say that a soldier's right to free speech is a gray area, and cases involving it are rarely prosecuted in a military court. The last time a soldier was prosecuted for making contemptuous statements about a superior officer was in 1965, when an officer took part in a Vietnam war protest.

A late conversion

In 1974, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled that the military code trumps free speech rights for certain kinds of expression. While military personnel are not excluded from First Amendment protection, the court found that there may be occasion to restrict speech to ensure discipline in the ranks.

"It may seem ironic that some of the very constitutional rights that soldiers swear an oath to defend are not always or fully available to the soldiers themselves," said Paul K. McMasters, ombudsman at the First Amendment Center, a nonprofit educational organization based in Virginia. "But the military deems that condition essential to its mission."

The military can restrict service personnel from displaying political bumper stickers, wearing religious garments and criticizing the president in public, said Jonathan Turley, a professor of law at George Washington University who specializes in constitutional issues.

But enforcement is not always consistent, Turley said. Usually the military will ask soldiers to tone down their speech or remind them to be apolitical rather than prosecute them, he said.

What constitutes disrespectful language is vague and subject to interpretation, said Seitz.

"You do not surrender your First Amendment rights when you become a soldier," he said.

The "Nuremberg principles" that evolved from an international inquiry into the atrocities of World War II dictate that an officer has an obligation to reject orders he or she considers illegal, Seitz said.

Carolyn Ho, Watada's mother, said her son believed that he had a duty to disobey illegal orders.

"He is sending that message to all the armed forces, the message that they need to examine carefully the war they are choosing to fight," Ho said.

Watada says he joined the Army in a patriotic fervor the summer after he graduated from Hawaii-Pacific University in the summer of 2003. His view about the war did not change until January of this year, when his commanding officer told him to research Iraq because he would soon be sent there, according to Ho.

As Watada researched the roots of the war, he realized that the Iraqi weapons of mass destruction cited as a rationale did not exist, his mother said.

"He weighed the circumstances and felt that he had no choice but to say no," said Ho.

An uphill struggle

So Watada told his commander that he could not support the war. He tried to resign his commission, but by March of this year, it became clear that his superiors were not going to accept his resignation. He hired Seitz, a well-known military defense lawyer, and began negotiations behind the scenes.

When those negotiations sputtered, Seitz said Watada decided to go public with his views on the war. He has stopped talking to the media until the investigation is over.

Most legal experts and peace groups say that Watada has a difficult road ahead to avoid punishment for criticizing the war and refusing to deploy.

"I think he's trying to break new ground, but I think he's going to dull his pickax in the process," said Eugene Fidell, a Washington lawyer who specializes in military legal issues.;
The question is whether the government will prosecute him for disloyalty or for the more straightforward violation of refusing to deploy with his unit.

</file>

<file= AmE06_A37>

North Korean diplomats on the prowl in Berlin are easy to spot. They wear badges with portraits of "Great Leader" Kim Il Sung--and the more important the official, the bigger the badge. But tracking others suspected of shopping for the technology needed to produce a nuclear weapon is rarely so simple. The supply lines used by the world's proliferators are almost as complex as the weapons themselves, and neither the United Nations' nuclear watchdog, the International Atomic Energy Agency, nor the intelligence services of the United States and other powers--let alone the international legal system--can fully meet the challenge.

"We are still grappling with the clandestine network we discovered a few years back," IAEA Director General Mohamed ElBaradei told a conference on nuclear safeguards at the organization's Vienna headquarters last week. "When we know now that on a CD-ROM you have designs for centrifuges [capable of enriching uranium to weapons-grade], and possibly even weapons design, that makes you very worried."

U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice was in Asia last week trying to persuade leaders in South Korea and China to enforce U.N. sanctions against Pyongyang for its Oct. 9 nuclear test, but the chances of the Great Leader's son, Kim Jong Il, voluntarily giving up his nation's nukes are slim at best. The challenge now is to prevent the North's program from advancing, and to stop Kim from selling his scientists' know-how to terrorists or other states. Equally important is the job of blocking the shadowy civilian suppliers of nuclear technology, who are even harder to track. Last week ElBaradei warned that in addition to the nine countries known or strongly suspected to be nuclear-weapons states, including North Korea, an additional 30 could have the technology to build the bomb "in a very short time."

AQ Khan, the "father" of Pakistan's nuclear-weapons program, spawned the first generation of atomic death mer-chants in the 1980s, supplying expertise, designs and parts for profit. His suppliers played a direct role in building up the nuclear programs of Libya, Iran and North Korea. But even with Khan under watch at home in Pakistan and supposedly out of business, the illicit traffic in nuclear technology continues. "The system [is] a moving target all the time," said ElBaradei.
 
Some of the news is good, according to IAEA investigators in Vienna, and it's important to keep that in mind amid the many scary headlines. "Suitcase bombs" and other imagined devices expected to show up on the atomic black market after the breakup of the Soviet empire have never actually surfaced. Without such ready-made weapons, the chances are slight that any terrorist organization, even Al Qaeda, could pull off a nuclear attack. Criminals have also found it impossible to get their hands on significant quantities of the "fissile materials"--plutonium or highly enriched uranium--needed for the core of a bomb. The database of the IAEA's Security Division, which tracks cases of stolen, missing and intercepted nuclear materials going back to 1993, is largely a record of scams, most of them quite clumsy, and none of them involving nearly enough material to make a nu-clear weapon.

Still, though rolling up the AQ Khan network was a noteworthy victory, that investigation was plagued by miscommunications, blown covers and legal confusions that will have to be resolved if there are to be further successes. A case in point: the area around Haag, Switzerland, near the Liechtenstein border, holds a collection of precision-engineering firms known among investigators as Vacuum Tube Valley. Friedrich Tinner, an owner or player in several of these companies and a longtime acquaintance of Khan's, denies charges he intentionally helped produce components for clandestine nuclear programs. But one of his sons, Urs Tinner, is alleged to have played a pivotal role: first by making vital parts for Libya's secret nuclear program, then as an informant for the CIA, helping to expose it.

Urs Tinner's story began in the 1990s, according to U.S. and European officials who worked closely with the CIA's efforts to penetrate these operations. Those sources (asking not to be named because of the sensitive subject) say U.S. intelligence gained potential leverage over the Tinners in the late 1990s, when Urs ran afoul of French authorities. One of the French security services tipped off the Americans.

Urs went to work for Scomi Precision Engineering (SCOPE), a company set up in Malaysia by Khan associates to produce high-tech components, ostensibly for use in the oil industry. Urs supervised production of pieces for centrifuges, according to a detailed report issued by the Malaysian police in 2004. The components were loaded on the BBC China, a Libya-bound ship, which was inter-cepted in October 2003 by a team of U.S. and other agents. Within weeks, Libyan leader Muammar Kaddafi, his operations now exposed, ended his nuclear program and gave up a trove of intelligence about his suppliers. The incident remains the biggest counterproliferation coup on record.

The CIA kept its eye on Urs, along with his brother Marco and their father, the intelligence officials say. But a few months after the BBC China bust, German border police arrested and jailed Urs, apparently unaware of his CIA ties, and then extradited him to Switzerland, where Marco and Friedrich were later picked up. The old man was freed, but his sons remain in detention, pending possible charges under a Swiss law banning traffic in nuclear technology from Swiss soil.

Before the arrests, the brothers denied any wrongdoing. A family spokes-man said Urs had worked for SCOPE but had no idea that parts were going to Libya. The CIA declines to comment on the case. What's clear is that the Tinners are now useless, either as moles or as surveillance targets, to investigators trying to discover where AQ Khan's seeds of destruction might still be sprouting.

With the potential danger of nuclear proliferation so great, a more organized approach to stopping it clearly is needed. The IAEA is neither a spy agency nor a police force; it is an international organization answerable to the same countries it is supposed to be inspecting. To gain more flexibility, the Bush administration launched what it calls the Proliferation Security Initiative (PSI) in 2003. It is "not a treaty-based approach," says the State Department, but rather a cooperative effort among willing nations to fight the spread of nuclear weapons. Some of the PSI's most successful actions have been to freeze bank accounts around the world that belong to known or suspected proliferators.

The IAEA would quickly be overwhelmed if it tried on its own to track all the potential traffic in "dual use" technologies that might, or might not, be used to make nuclear components. (Hence, national laws against dual-technology exports are a crucial supplement to the IAEA's work.) "One has to be careful not to wind up counting nuts and bolts and valves," says a Vienna-based diplomat who watches proliferation issues closely but is not authorized to speak on the record. "It will suffocate you." New or improved technologies can help, from data mining programs to better explore the vast array of information that the Internet has made available, to satellite imaging, air sampling and isotope analysis. But the mission remains excruciatingly difficult. Still, those who make it their life's work know that it's a job that has to be done--and done better, today, than ever before.;

Not long ago, Mohammed Kika found out that his name had appeared on a London-based Web site run by Sunni exiles from Iraq. The Baghdad man was accused of betraying other Sunnis to a Shiite militia in the mixed neighborhood of Mansour, receiving a $200 bounty for each one he identified. The posting even disclosed the name of the barbershop where Kika could be found. He ran for his life, friends and family told NEWSWEEK. At first he hid out in the Shiite neighborhood of Karrada, and then he fled the country.

Iraq's sectarian war is spreading onto the Web. Some Iraqis, like Kika, have been forced into hiding or exile after being targeted on the Internet. Others may have run too slowly. Sunni and Shiite Web sites offer warnings to Iraqis about neighborhoods and ministries that may have been infiltrated by militias, but the sites are also increasingly used as tools by those seeking names, addresses and occupations of citizens to kill. (NEWSWEEK has found at least eight of these sites, but we have decided not to publish their Web addresses.) The outings are openly endorsed by some Iraqi leaders. Jalal al-Din Saghir, an influential Shiite cleric and parliamentary deputy, sponsors several sites. "Some of the Web sites can be used to catch spies by tracking their movements," he told NEWSWEEK.

Rising sectarian violence has become the No. 1 threat to Iraq's stability, with more than 2,500 Iraqis killed violently in September. Much of the killing is linked to death squads in Iraq's heavily Shiite police force, an agency that would scarcely exist without U.S. training and funding. Last week the U.S. military removed an entire Iraqi national police brigade from duty after American soldiers received reports that the unit was involved in death-squad activities. Military investigators are tracing possible links to the notorious Mahdi Army militia, which is believed to be running Shiite death squads in Baghdad. Efforts to build a reliable Iraqi police force seem nearly hopeless anyway: this summer alone the Interior Ministry reportedly fired at least 1,700 bad cops.

And the violence in the streets keeps getting nastier. Until recently, death threats in Iraq arrived the old-fashioned way--a flier found on a family's doorstep, warning them to leave the neighborhood or suffer the consequences. Now Iraq's sectarian killers have discovered the anonymity and long reach of the Internet.

Sunni sites provide Arabic-speaking users with a place to swap information--true or not--about alleged collaborators with Shiite death squads in Baghdad. One site's Iraqi correspondents write in with news and views--as well as exposs of corrupt officials or snitches alleged to be aiding the death squads. One of the site's organizers, Ali Ahmad, denies that he promotes violence with his site, and says he just "publishes information to fill a vacuum that the authorities can't. People can't go to the police," says the 48-year-old, an Iraqi exile and British citizen. Last week the site published a warning "not to go to the Ministry of Higher Education to accept fellowships, because it is a trap by a death squad." Another site lists more than 300 names, birthdays and locations of suspected Shiite militia members. Shiites have sites of their own, where believers are urged to avenge suicide car-bomb attacks by slaughtering Sunnis. "Let's torture them and don't be silent," wrote one recent poster.

The U.S. military tries to monitor the e-traffic, hoping to head off the killers. But the stepped-up drive against the death squads is tough on both sides: last week at least 13 U.S. troops were killed in Baghdad, one of the city's worst weeks for Americans since the war began. More bad weeks may be ahead as the fight continues. One post last week offered advice to members of the Mahdi Army on how to avoid capture by U.S. forces. "Don't wear black," the writer advised, referring to the standard Mahdi Army uniform. Other tips: "Hide your weapons," don't stand in groups, and "never admit you're a member of the militia." Just what Iraq needs: online hints for sectarian butchers.; 

Israel launched airstrikes on Lebanon in response to attacks by Hizbullah earlier this month, and George W. Bush called it "self-defense." But what to tell the Turks, who over the last week lost 15 sol-diers to terror attacks launched by sepa-ratist Kurds from neighboring Iraq? Many Turkish leaders are pressing for cross-border tactical air assaults on the guerrillas. But Bush, fearing yet another escalation of the Middle East's violence, urged Prime Minister Recep Tayyip to hold off. "The message was, unilateral action isn't going to be helpful," says a senior U.S. official, describing the 15-minute phone conversation. "The president asked for patience."

</file>

<file= AmE06_A38>

NEW YORK -- This is a tale of two icons. The first is choreographer and director Twyla Tharp, who several years ago used Billy Joel's song catalog to develop the Tony Award-winning stage hit Movin' Out, which enjoyed more than 1,300 performances on Broadway and a successful national tour. 
The second is Bob Dylan, whose music and lyrics inspired and are showcased in Tharp's new outing, The Times They Are A-Changin', which opens tonight at the Brooks Atkinson Theatre. 
During a rehearsal break, Tharp, 65, says there should be "no comparisons" between her latest troubadour tribute and the one that preceded it. "They're like apples and oranges," says the dance maverick, whose no-nonsense manner can be engaging and intimidating. 
"In Movin' Out, the band was upstairs and the vocal was carried by the piano player," Tharp explains. "Billy's material was handled in a way that was very Billy, in terms of the orchestration, and the piano players had voices that gave some sense of Billy Joel." 
In Times, "there are characters who carry the songs, so movement is part and parcel of the action. We've transposed a number of Dylan songs for the female voice, and there are duets." 
The numbers include Blowin' in the Wind, Just Like a Woman, Like a Rolling Stone and other popular and critical favorites. 
"Some songs are taken in a totally different direction from that folk-concert world Dylan was in," Tharp says. "The progression had to do with establishing this dream world or circus world, and finding metaphors that could be embedded in the movement." 
Asked what drew her to Dylan, Tharp, who has also drawn on repertoires ranging from Beethoven to Jelly Roll Morton, says simply, "It has to do with looking at the work of someone else and figuring out if it's appropriate for me at this point. Dylan has obviously had a career for decades, and each one has its own validity." 
Tharp is reluctant to discuss Dylan's reaction to Times, stating flatly, "There's nothing to be said." 
But in a separate interview, Dylan, who caught Times during its world premiere at San Diego's Old Globe Theatre, begs to differ. "It hit me like a lightning bolt," he says. "It went through me on a celestial level, and not because I had anything to do with it. Dance is not my expertise, but I felt like I was flying when I left the theater. A couple of the duets knocked me flat. It was pretty steamy. These songs were coming across in a way I couldn't get them across. I understand now she's made it 1,000% better." 
Tharp says the Broadway production is "very different from the one in San Diego. The song list is quite similar, and the character list is essentially as it was. But some scenic transformations are different, and the ensemble list is totally different, because my dancers were still on contract to Movin' Out until the spring." 
Whether New York critics prove as effusive as Dylan remains to be seen. Tharp isn't taking it as a given that the show will prove to be as popular as Movin' Out did, either. 
"There will be people who have deep connections to the Dylan canon on its own terms," Tharp says. "That canon is always going to be there. But this is something different. It's a translation into another world, and that's the adventure." 

This is one "bad guy" role that Wesley Snipes doesn't want. In a federal indictment unsealed Tuesday, prosecutors hit Snipes, the prolific actor and movie producer, with eight counts of tax fraud. 
According to the indictment, Snipes allegedly not only avoided paying millions in income taxes from 1999 through 2004, but he fraudulently tried to get an $11 million refund for taxes paid in the 1990s. 
Prosecutors also filed charges against two Florida men who acted as tax advisers to Snipes, Eddie Ray Kahn and Douglas Rosile. 
Snipes, who used to have a residence near Orlando, has starred in nearly 50 movies including White Men Can't Jump, New Jack City and the highly successful Blade series. But he reportedly also has run into a series of financial and legal difficulties. In this case, prosecutors allege that Kahn and Rosile convinced Snipes that under an unusual interpretation of federal law, known as the "861 argument," only income derived from foreign-based activities was taxable. A U.S. court has never supported the argument. 
Kahn founded a group known as American Rights Litigators and Guiding Light of God Ministries. Although GLGM described itself as a "Christian ministry and organization established to assist men and women in their pursuit of truth and freedom as Americans," the government alleges GLGM is a for-profit operation that sells fraudulent tax schemes. According to the indictment, Snipes paid Kahn a consulting fee and paid to become a member of his American Rights Litigators group. 
Rosile, an accountant whose CPA licenses to practice in Ohio and Florida were revoked, worked with Kahn to file tax returns for GLGM clients to claim refunds based on the "861 argument." According to the indictment, if the government refunded money based on the "861" theory, Kahn would take 20% of the refund and pay half to Rosile. 
Despite warnings from previous tax advisers that his movie- related income was taxable and the "861" scheme was bogus, Snipes apparently sided with Kahn and Rosile in 2000 and stopped paying income taxes, the indictment says. Using the "861 argument," Snipes tried to recover $4 million in taxes paid for 1996 and $7 million for 1997. The government also claims that Snipes tried to pay some of his income taxes from 2000 to 2002 by sending $14 million in bogus checks to the U.S. Treasury. 
Paul Perez, the U.S. Attorney in Tampa who filed the charges, said in a statement: "Those who intentionally and unlawfully harass the IRS through deceit, trickery and fraud undermine the collection of revenue that is vital to every aspect of the operation of our government." The Associated Press reported that Perez said Snipes has not been arrested because authorities don't know his whereabouts. Two of the charges that Snipes faces each carry a maximum sentence of five years. The remaining six charges carry up to one year each. 
A spokesman for Snipes could not be reached for comment. Kahn and Rosile also could not be reached. 

Even series not focusing on two guys in particular are still exploring the subject. 
On NBC's The Office this season, Steve Carell, as the office boss, spent an entire episode being glum over the fact that he had no guy friends. And Josh Schwartz, creator of The OC, has written an upcoming story line featuring Peter Gallagher's husband/father character seeking out a guy pal. 
"I think there comes a time in a man's life when he looks around and he realizes, 'You know, I don't really have any guys to hang out with,'" Schwartz says. The show's goal: to make Gallagher's character "more relatable." 
But where is this TV trend coming from? 
Last year, The New York Times reported a phenomenon in which heterosexual men were getting together for something other than business or sports, and it was dubbed a "man date." The Washington Post also examined the idea recently, calling heterosexual closeness a "male-ationship." Lately, the term "bromance" has been cited in the urban dictionary of slang for a friendship between "brothers." 
"The whole culture of masculinity is changing, and changing quite radically from the days when John Wayne and the Lone Ranger were the top images of what it meant to be male," says Judith Sherven, a relationship expert and author of several books with her husband, Jim Sniechowski, also a relationship expert. He says it's an outgrowth of the feminist movement. She says it's a breaking down of barriers. 
"There aren't rigid sex-role stereotypes that govern everyone's behavior anymore," she says, adding that women always have comfortably had friends, and now TV characters are reflecting men's freedom to express themselves with their friends. 
"Now men are open to the fact that this is certainly within the realm of being masculine. It doesn't mean they're acting like women. They're following a human instinct, and there aren't the prohibitions against it." 
The only limits would be the ones that entice Ryan Murphy, creator of cable's Nip/Tuck, the edgy surgery show that explores all sorts of sexual relationships. After all, when two men become close, the next question is: How close are they? 
Murphy said at the start of the Nip/Tuck season that he would be playing with the relationship between the two male surgeons by having one begin to have dreams about whether his love for the other meant he's bisexual or gay. 
"It's pushing those boundaries a little bit. The show always examines sexuality and troubles of intimacy and who you are based on what you look like and how you react to people, so it's a natural evolution," Murphy says. "I think you see these two really are the closest they're going to be to another human being -- but can't go deeper than that." 
And on Studio 60, the two characters suddenly realized they might be getting too close. In a recent scene, they got into a shouting match that wound up in a wrestling match on the beach. 
Matt: "Are people looking at us right now?" 
Danny: "I think they are." 
Matt: "Could you punch me in the face or something, because to a casual observer this appears a little homoerotic for my comfort." 
Danny: "I definitely hear you on that. What should we do?" 
Matt: "Go." 
They get up, looking sheepish. 
Danny: "All right, just play it cool." 
A buddy history 
Two male friends is an old comedic device -- from Abbott and Costello to Felix and Oscar. Even Starsky and Hutch were good for laughs, intentional or not. 
On NBC's Twenty Good Years, Jeffrey Tambor and John Lithgow play two 60-year-olds, a widower and a divorce, who move in together to share their last "20 good years" of life. (The sitcom, new this season, was pulled from the network's schedule Tuesday, with its last airdate scheduled for Nov. 8.) 
Tambor plays Jeffrey, a judge. Lithgow plays John, a doctor. Just like The Odd Couple, they are mismatched roommates, one uptight, the other wild. 
The two actors say their pairing is less a reflection of any national zeitgeist regarding menship and more about a harking back to the roots of comedy. 
"The cliche of a comic pairing is straight man and a zany," Lithgow says. "In our case, we throw the ball back and forth." Says Tambor, "We take turns being Laurel and Hardy -- or Lucy and Ethel." 
But both say their relationship is not about being gay or hinting at homoerotic undertones. "We're not gay men, we're foolish men," Lithgow says. 
Similarly, Denny Crane (Shatner) and Alan Shore (Spader) have brought a comic touch to an intimate relationship between two guys on Boston Legal. Both are as old-school hetero-manly as men can be: bedding women, smoking cigars and winning big cases. 
But listen to how they talked in the episode when they took a fishing trip to Canada and ended up sleeping in the same bed: 
Denny: "Shirley was looking at us funny. Think she knows we slept together?" 
Alan: "She might. We still have that glow." (A beat.) "Quite a trip." 
Denny: "I shot my first steelhead." 
Alan (softly): "Thank you, Denny. You took my mind off Tara. You took me to a new land. But most of all ... you took me to a new place." 
Denny: "What do you mean?" 
Alan: "You've occasioned a cynical, material, urban man to feel passion. For a fish." 
Denny: "I think Canada liked us." 
Alan: "How could they not?" 
Denny: "We make quite the team, I'll tell you that." 
Alan: "Yes, we do." 
Denny: "We're good on the road." 
Alan: "Indeed." 
Kind of suggestive? 
Spader says no way.

</file>

<file= AmE06_A39>

Russell Baze rests on Mondays. No workouts, no runs up and down the carpeted stairs in his house, and no riding horses. That's his day to do nothing other than maybe spend time with his four kids or take his wife, Tami, to dinner and a movie.

As for the other six days of the week, Baze can be found at a racetrack, where an afternoon rarely goes by that Baze doesn't visit his favorite place of all, the winner's circle. Since winning his first race aboard a horse named Oregon Warrior on Oct. 28, 1974, Baze has made 9,528 trips to the winner's circle, more than any other rider in history except one, three-time Belmont Stakes winner Laffit Pincay Jr.

But Baze's place in history could change as soon as today at Bay Meadows Racecourse, a short drive across the Golden Gate Bridge from San Francisco. Baze has six mounts on the card, and needs only two wins to tie Pincay's all-time record of 9,530 wins.

If the number seems astronomical, well, in some ways it is, especially when you consider the longevity a rider must produce in what is arguably the most dangerous job in professional sports. When asked during a conference call last week to shed perspective on the record's meaning in sports, Baze referred to someone who displayed similar discipline and tunnel-vision work habits.

"I was really impressed with Cal Ripken's record," Baze said. "I mean, he worked sometimes when he was injured, when he wasn't feeling good. He went out there and worked anyway. That kind of desire and strong will, you know, that kind of thing impresses me."

Considering Baze's career choice, the fact he can pull his 48-year-old battered body out of bed and onto a horse several times a day is remarkable. While Ripken undoubtedly played hurt during stretches of his all-time record 2,632 consecutive games played streak, he never had to overcome a string of injuries like Baze on his way to making history.

"I've had five compression fractures in my back, a torn disc in my lower back, a broken vertebrae in my back, a broken bone in my neck, three broken collarbones, a host of cracked ribs and broken ribs," Baze said. "I broke my pelvis, cracked my wrist, broke a bone in my hand, and had lots of sprains and bruises. I've also had concussions."

Somehow, Baze says that the only lingering pain he has most mornings is an ankle he has sprained over the years more times than he can count.

Baze grew up in a horse racing family - his father Joe was a longtime trainer on the West Coast - so becoming a jockey was not a far leap. But the idea of winning more races than any other rider in history never crossed his mind.

"When I first started out, I was just happy to be doing this, and tickled to death that somebody was actually paying me to do it," Baze said. "I've never been a great one for setting goals."

Missing from Baze's resume is a victory in a Triple Crown race. He has spent most of his career competing at smaller tracks in Northern California, far from the spotlight. He finished 13th aboard Cause to Believe in this year's Kentucky Derby, and has a slew of major stakes wins.

Pincay, who surpassed Bill Shoemaker's all-time wins record in 1999 at Hollywood Park with the late Shoemaker watching, will be at Bay Meadows today to see if Baze can pass him.

While some consider Pincay's career more prestigious because much of his success came on a larger stage, Pincay scoffs at the notion.

"He shows up every day and he rides good horses and bad horses just the same, and that's the way I used to be," Pincay said. "I would have been very proud whether I won the title [of all-time winningest rider] in Panama or riding camels over there in Iraq.

"This is something that Russell should be very proud of."

Baze has been trainer Jerry Hollendorfer's first-call rider for many years. The California-based Hollendorfer, who had his first string of horses at Tampa Bay Downs last season, said there is no secret to Baze's success.

"I've always believed that people who work hard get what they deserve, and Russell is as hard a working rider as there ever was," Hollendorfer said. "He also has the talent to back up his work ethic, and that's the difference between him being a journeyman and the Hall of Famer he is."

Whether Baze breaks Pincay's record today or later this week, he has no plans of slowing down.

"Hopefully, I'll be able to set [the record] at 10,000 and maybe a little farther," he said. "I'm healthy and I'm enjoying what I'm doing, so I don't see any end in the near future."; 

WESLEY CHAPEL - The thing about Bob Williams is, if he hadn't been born and reared to be the man he became, God would have had to invent him. The Almighty would have taken iron and flint and formed it around a perpetual motion machine; then he'd have taken a ladle of warm pudding, sweet and humble, and dropped it in for a heart.

At a month shy of 60, but with the physique, energy and buzz cut of a petty officer half his age, Williams is the personification of John F. Kennedy's 1961 inaugural speech in which, in foggy puffs, he reminded his countrymen, "Here on Earth, God's work must truly be our own."

Williams was a kid then, a high school sophomore. Three years later, the inspirational president assassinated, trouble rising in the east, the kid joined the Navy, where he hoped to make a home. For most of three years, he fueled fighter jets that launched from the deck of the USS Independence, a flattop that saw duty off Vietnam, Cuba and in the Mediterranean.

But it wasn't until he was blown from the flight deck to the catwalk below by an F-4's unexpected turn that Williams saw the world, being shipped from one naval hospital to another in search of an orthopedic surgeon up to the task of repairing both knees. After that, he rehabbed and mustered out of This Man's Navy, taking his honorable discharge into private life and the building of a niche industry - sifters for industrial bakers such as Nabisco - all the while longing for the life he'd left behind.

"I would go back in the blink of an eye if I could," Williams says.

Instead, he does the next best thing, living on military time and a military schedule, rising at "oh-dark-thirty" and going double time past sunset in support of U.S. military personnel stationed in the world's hot spots half a planet away.

Where The Focus Belongs

"This should not be about me," Williams says as he leads a tour of the 1-acre warehouse that doubles as headquarters for the companies he's turned over to his sons, and the staging area for a massive undertaking: the packing and shipping of boxes destined for Iraq, Kuwait, Afghanistan and Kyrgyzstan under the imprimatur of Support Our Troops ( www.ourtroopsonline.com).

Indeed, Williams and his ever-turning cast of volunteers - Girl Scouts one week, USF's ROTC members the next - represent only the neck of an hourglass, the pinched center through which all manner of goods, stuff and merchandise pass from private donors to be disbursed to distant U.S. bases where Williams' e-mail correspondents have made their needs known.

Nurses shivering in their tents want flannel pajamas. A sergeant setting up a recreation hall wants a television, a DVD player and movies. Socks are good, as are foil-wrapped packs of air-activated hand warmers. Stuck in boots, gloves, the helmet and on the back of the neck, they make midnight patrol in Lord-Knows-Where, Kyrgyzstan, practically tolerable.

Twenty-cup coffee makers are always popular, as are hot sauce, chips and bean dip.

Says Williams, "You don't want to be in one of their tents the night this stuff arrives."

Support Our Troops contributors, including large corporations, small businesses and individuals, have sent popcorn, stuffed toys, specialized rifle sights and rechargeable spotlights.

What Can We Do?

Are Williams and Support Our Troops making a difference where it matters, on the ill-defined front where terror experts weave their deadly fabric?

Ask the six Marines on patrol in Fallujah, Iraq, who wrote to tell of the little girl who sat, unmoving, in the middle of a dirt road as their patrol neared.

Some of the men recognized her as one of the children they recently had given plush toys and candy. As they dismounted from their Humvee and approached, the little girl sat tight, the letter said. When they drew near, she threw up a hand - Stop! - then pointed to the ground beside her.

The Marines instantly recognized the work of insurgents, who had buried a landmine in their path. The little girl's subtle, courageous and unlikely gesture had saved their lives.

"I'll send a whole crate of Beanie Babies over there if it keeps six Marines alive," Williams says.

This is where we come in. Moving a 69-pound, 20-inch cube of a box from here to there costs a tidy $27.05, putting Support Our Troops' postage bill at about $6,000 monthly. Your check, written simply to "Postmaster" - "I don't want to handle money," Williams says - in any denomination helps start a package on its two-week journey. Send it to Support Our Troops, P.O. Box 7560, Wesley Chapel FL 33544-0110.

These are the folks, Williams says, defending freedom's doorstep. No matter where you come down on the policy, Support Our Troops turns rhetoric and ribbons into reality.

Let's get busy.; 

TAMPA - The top general at U.S. Special Operations Command did not use his position for personal gain or to advance the interests of friends and former colleagues, the Defense Department inspector general concluded after a nearly 10-month investigation.
In a 21-page report, the inspector general's office said it could not substantiate allegations made in an Oct. 19 anonymous letter claiming Army Gen. Bryan "Doug" Brown had behaved improperly and perhaps illegally by manipulating the command's contracting process.
"The result of the investigation is exactly what we expected," Army Col. Sam Taylor, Socom's top spokesman, said Friday. "The allegations in the anonymous letter defied logic from the beginning."
The inspector general's report, dated Aug. 25, has not been publicly released. The Tampa Tribune reviewed a copy of the report's executive summary.
Taylor said the findings definitively clear Brown of any impropriety, but several of the letter's claims were not addressed in the executive summary. It's not clear why.
Gary Comerford, a spokesman for the inspector general, said the allegations "were found to be unsubstantiated" and "there is nothing further to say regarding this issue."
Letter Very Detailed
The authors of the four-page letter have not been identified. Socom officials concluded the letter is so detailed it only could have come from current or former command personnel.
Taylor said the letter surfaced at the same time that former defense contractor William Burke pleaded guilty to a federal bribery charge and retired Army Col. Tom Spellissy was about to be indicted as Burke's co-conspirator. Spellissy, who was convicted of conspiracy, and Burke both used to work at Socom.
"I believe the intent of whoever wrote the letter was to take the focus off the criminal behavior of those two individuals," Taylor said.
Spellissy and his attorney, Pat Doherty, did not return calls. Burke could not be reached for comment.
One of the many claims in the October letter was that Brown formed a special office at Socom as a favor to his predecessor, retired Air Force Gen. Charles Holland.
After leaving military service, Holland went to work for AeroVironment, a California company that builds unmanned aerial vehicles. The office would steer contracts to Holland, described in the anonymous letter as Brown's "buddy.";

</file>

<file= AmE06_A40>

Emmy night '06 proved that the talk about the awards being adrift isn't just talk. The mostly uninspired list of winners was matched by a stodgy, bloodless show.
There was nothing remotely envelope-pushing in all the envelope- ripping at the 58th annual Emmy Awards.
The event has been losing its sheen in recent years. This year was dull, duller, dullest.
OK, one timely touch was the depiction of the 'variety show' nominees on iPods and cellphones supposedly held by members of the audience. The variety/special directing award - summoned onscreen from inside a Howie Mandel briefcase and bounced from master control truck to auditorium as the director called the shots - was another clever bit.
Kiefer Sutherland finally got to make a speech; 'The Office' got its due.
Otherwise, it was an unremarkable show, tailor-made to be hidden deep in August.
The most remarkable moment didn't occur onstage. When Simon Cowell led the tribute to Dick Clark, the audience at the Shrine Auditorium in Los Angeles booed. The fact that Cowell has been in the vanguard of the 'reality TV' wave that has battered television wasn't lost on the audience that has witnessed a job shortage thanks to the unscripted-TV trend. Considering the circumstances, however, the response was rude.
Clark, who suffered a stroke in 2004, made a rare appearance before the hushed crowd, expressing his thanks for a lifetime in show business.
Then back to blah: Megan Mullally, Alan Alda, Barry Manilow, Mariska Hargitay, Tony Shalhoub, 'Amazing Race' for the sixth time. It was all about yesteryear.
The ads were infinitely more hip than the show. (Discover's barrage of scissors cutting up credit cards was fun.) In terms of presentation, pacing and sensibility, the Emmy proceedings were bleak.
Host Conan O'Brien scored with a 'Music Man' parody, recasting 'Trouble' to reflect the woes of his network. 'We got trouble, right here at NBC!' he sang, observing that things are so bad, they're relying on Mandel of 'Deal or No Deal.' But O'Brien's opening cried out for an editor: A simulated plane crash, like that on 'Lost,' was sickeningly close to the day's top news, a plane crash in Kentucky that killed 49.
At least 'My Name Is Earl' got nods for directing and writing, although it was shut out in the acting categories.
Likewise, 'The Sopranos' was recognized for writing, not for acting.
Just as the commercials were more memorable than the show, the presenters were more impressive than the winners.
The most forward-looking (not to mention hottest) pair all evening was Evangeline Lilly and Wentworth Miller as presenters. Give Lilly an award for carrying off that dress, too.
The late Aaron Spelling deserved his salute, of course, and the Shrine audience seemed touched. But, for viewers, there must have been a better way to salute the king of 'guilty pleasure' TV.
Slow, slower, slowest.
Jon Stewart and Stephen Colbert came close to saving the proceedings in their biting presentation of the 'reality TV' category.
They were too little, too late.
Maybe next year the Emmy show should be buried in July.
Three days after the Beatles played Red Rocks in 1964-the only show on that tour not to sell out-the two most popular bands in Colorado clashed at Lakeside Amusement Park.
Several thousand people showed up for that sold-out battle of the bands between Denver's The Moonrakers and Boulder's The Astronauts, not surprising since it was the period when local rock 'n' roll hit its apex.
The Astronauts eventually caught on as a surf-rock band on RCA Records and their hit song, 'Baja,' is still consistently released on compilations. The Moonrakers broke big after releasing a string of garage-punk singles that ruled the city scene in the mid-1960s.
Now, after more than 30 years apart, they have re-formed for a one-time, long-awaited reunion show in Lone Tree on Sunday with the Freddi-Henchi Band.
'There was a purity in the music and an excitement in the air,' keyboardist Denny Flannigan said of the bevy of bands that sprung up after rock's first wave of rockabilly and pop R&B receded, and just as a new breed of garage rock began to crest.
'What stands out in my memory from that time is being able to play with so many talented musicians and good bands.'
The Moonrakers, who later changed their name to Sugarloaf and had a national hit with 'Green-Eyed Lady' in 1972, are a key component of Colorado's largely forgotten rock music history.
In Denver, there were the Moonrakers, the Poor, the Rainy Daze, Boenzee Cryque, Bakersfield Charter and the Soul Survivors. In Pueblo, there were the Trolls; the Soul from Colorado Springs; the Monocles from Greeley; and the Astronauts in Boulder.
They all formed a loose collective of bands thriving at watered- down 3.2 beer clubs open to those 18 and older, including the Galaxy on West Alameda Avenue, the La Pitche and Pussycat-a-go-go on Sante Fe Avenue, the Exodus on Lincoln Avenue, Tulagi in Boulder and Kelker Junction in Colorado Springs.
And, on down nights at the Trocadero Ballroom at Elitch's and the Moonlight Gardens Ballroom at Lakeside, the Moonrakers took their place at the center of it all.
'When we first started to break, we arranged to battle the Astronauts at Lakeside,' Flannigan said. 'No matter how many times we battled them or played with them, we never knocked them out.
'There were a lot of local bands and local fans, and it was all credited with being the start of something.'
In September 1965, the Moonrakers' 'You'll Come Back' reached No.1 on the KIMN Radio Hit Parade chart, knocking out the Kingsmen's 'Louie Louie.' It was followed by the rocker 'I'm All Right' and a version of 'Baby Please Don't Go' that stands out among the dozens of other versions as more atonal and noisy with its Wurlitzer electric piano.
'We had long hair and our own instruments, which was key,' Flannigan said. 'We were the first band in Colorado to break from the four guitars and a drum set sound.'
Tower Records released the early Moonrakers singles alongside music from the Standells, the Chocolate Watch Band and Pink Floyd. And the band played with the Dave Clark Five, the
Byrds, the Beach Boys and Dusty Springfield, among others.
But by the end of the decade, bands were moving west, and the Moonrakers reformed as Sugarloaf.
The original members - Joel Brandes, Van Dorn, Bob MacVittie, Bob Webber and Flannigan - all moved away.
'We've been fortunate to be a part of people's lives for so long. But it felt like it would be incomplete to not play another show,' Flannigan said. 'So we put the pieces into play. We've all had a desire to do this again, and we're going to assume it's like riding a bicycle.'
For Sunday's show, at Treo at Lone Tree, Bob Yeazel of Sugarloaf and Jerry Krenzer of Freddi-Henchi will play in place of the absent Webber. But Brandes, Dorn and Flannigan will travel from California, and MacVittie will come from Arkansas.
'But The Moonrakers were always a Denver band,' Flannigan said.

For hundreds of years, when an industry felt its products were in danger of losing favor with the public, the merchandisers tried cutting prices.
Movie theaters are finally catching up with that tenet of elastic demand, announcing a new set of discounts meant to slow the migration of customers toward pay-per-view, downloads and other ways of watching filmed entertainment.
Colorado Cinemas will offer blanket $5 pricing for all of its movies at 10 multiplexes during the 'twilight' hours of 4-6 p.m., every day, starting this afternoon. That's a significant savings from the usual matinee pricing of about $7.50 at most area theaters, and a big cut from the $9.25 to $9.50 full-price ticket.
The move comes a month after the AMC Theatres chain launched an 'A.M. Cinema' program at 300 theater complexes nationwide, including its Colorado cinemas. AMC's discounts cut the price of a movie beginning before noon on Friday, Saturday, Sunday and holidays to $5 at Denver-area locations.
The AMC program began nationwide July 14, after a four-
month test in Denver; Kansas City; Columbus, Ohio; and Charlotte, N.C. The test produced 'great feedback' and pushed up attendance, though AMC did not release specific numbers, according to company spokeswoman Melanie Bell.
The twilight price cuts should appeal to an even wider audience, said Tom Bieleseldt of Colorado Cinemas.
'We've identified a segment that's not going to the movies as frequently as we'd like, and we'd like to reach out to that audience,' Bieleseldt said. 'Five dollars is a pricing point that resonates with people.'
The 4-6 p.m. time slot should appeal to teenagers who want to do more than one thing on their nights out, seniors who want to start early, and couples with kids at home who want an early movie before going out to dinner, he said.
Theater chains are responding to ominous trends among younger moviegoers. While box office revenues have been solid this summer, teenagers and young adults are increasingly comfortable watching movies at home on DVD or pay-per-
view, and many want to download movies for personal use as soon as they appear in theaters.
A recent extensive Los Angeles Times poll of entertainment choices said 44 percent of people aged 21 to 24 are seeing fewer films in theaters each year. In the same age group, 56 percent said they would rather watch a movie at home if it were available the same day it opened in the theater. 

That's a wrap.
'Resurrecting the Champ' finished shooting Monday with a bang, a big Denver scene featuring Josh Hartnett and Hall of Famer John Elway on the patio of Elway's restaurant.
The film, based on a magazine story by Denver-based L.A. Times correspondent J.R. Moehringer, was shot in 36 days, all but two of them in Calgary, Canada. Since it's set in Denver, however, director Rod Lurie and his crew were here to get some exterior shots (Denver Coliseum, Coors Field, etc.).
Hartnett plays a 'Denver Times' sportswriter, based loosely on Moehringer. The actor, famous for his roles in 'Black Hawk Down' and 'Pearl Harbor,' began Monday's shooting at Dove Valley, where the Broncos just opened camp. After ad-libbing an interview with Jake Plummer, he dashed off to Elway's for a lunch scene with that other Broncos QB, a scene that also starred Hartnett's on-camera son, played smartly by Dakota Goyo.
The setup: Hartnett and his son are finishing up lunch when the boy spots Elway. The boy runs up to Elway, thinking he's pals with his dad. The gridiron icon is warm and welcoming, though it's clear he has no idea who Hartnett's character is. 'You play football?' Elway asks the boy.
'Yeah,' the kid says. 'But my hands aren't big enough to hold a real football.'
'Lemme see,' Elway says. 'Your hands are twice the size mine were at your age.'
Lurie said he has long admired Elway - and before long No.7 was earning the director's admiration as an actor too. After one take, someone yelled out: 'An athlete who remembers all his lines? Incredible!'
Having starred in countless commercials, and a cameo on the TV show 'Las Vegas,' Elway said he wasn't nervous about his first time on the big screen. 'If you mess up, you get to do it over again.'
Not like football.
Lurie, who co-wrote the script, has high hopes for the movie, which is slated for release next year. 'The performances are amazing,' he says of Hartnett, Samuel L. Jackson and the rest of a cast, which includes Teri Hatcher, Alan Alda and Kathryn Morris.
Hartnett spent most of his time in our town lying low at the JW Marriott. 'Champ' has been an exhausting slog for the rising star. Six days of shooting a week, six straight weeks.
Although Hartnett was exhausted, Venessa Harris and Lindsay Spencer were thrilled. The two servers at Elway's got to be extras Monday. Both were paid scale, but afterward both looked as if they would have gladly paid for the privilege.

</file>

<file= AmE06_A41>

It was kind of silly. Waiting for the kiss, some public display of affection. You often wonder how celebrity couples would act in public. And depending on the kiss, it could just cement the notion that this celebrity marriage is actually working.
But the kiss would have to wait.
Country and western music supercouple Faith Hill and Tim McGraw had work to do, and they invited their guests at Alltel Arena to "celebrate with them in their house" Friday night.
The show opened with Hill rising from under the stage, which was in the center of the arena and in the shape of a cross stretching up to the stands on the sides.
With a vibrant, powerful voice, Hill proved from the opening lines of her current duet with McGraw, "Like We've Never Loved At All," she is like few others.
The crowd of 13,301 at the Soul2Soul II tour stop roared with appreciation and got louder when McGraw emerged from under the stage for his opening lines, and it didn't stop for the next two hours except to catch an occasional breath.
After the opening number, McGraw disappeared (ladies first), and Hill began her half of the show.
Hill focused mostly on the music, tuning out the crowd during her songs, opening with "Mississippi Girl," mega hit "The Way You Love Me," and "Sunshine And Summertime," which, in addition to her first number, is on her most-recent album Fireflies and benefited from a lively percussion arrangement.
The design of the stage gave many an up-close look at the performers. Band members, as well as the headliners, came out to the edge of the stage and played to the crowd like they, not McGraw and Hill, were the reason the tickets were sold. And the crowd loved it.
From sweet songs like "Fireflies" and "Stolen Kisses" to powerful ballads "Let Me Let Go" and "Cry" and more jaunty songs like "This Kiss," Hill showed range in her voice from touching to belting, hitting the high notes like few can.
She closed her solo set with a raucous version of Janis Joplin's "Piece of My Heart," which she covered on her 1993 debut album Take Me As I Am.
McGraw rejoined his spouse on the stage and they sang "Angry All the Time" and "Let's Make Love" before Hill disappeared and McGraw took over.
The country crier (because he often sings with a cry in his voice) opened his set with "Real Good Man" and "Where The Green Grass Grows," before offering the crowd his first No. 1 hit, "Don't Take the Girl," which the audience accepted with open arms and bellowing voices.
McGraw was every bit into the crowd. And sometimes literally. Often he stopped and let the crowd sing, and when songs were over, he sometimes spread his arms wide and let the deafening noise wash over him, occasionally inspiring the audience to get louder.
After his smash hit "Live Like You Were Dying" and a particularly audacious ovation, McGraw said, "That's exactly why we do this. Thank you for making this possible." He continued, "I turned 39 the other day (actually, May 1), and this is my 17th year on the road. And I'll do it another 17 if you guys let me. Or until I can't get into these jeans, whichever comes first. But they're gettin' kinda tight." McGraw ended his 15-song set with his 11-year-old hit "I Like It I Love It" while going down into the crowd, shaking hands, giving fists and letting some in the audience sing into the microphone.
While McGraw had worked up a sweat in his black leather cowboy hat and bluejeans, Hill had changed into a black halter dress and sandals and rejoined him onstage for three more songs, including music chart success "It's Your Love" and Bob Marley's "No Woman No Cry," for an interesting country twist on a reggae song.
The finale explained the Soul2Soul theme. The couple disappeared, then came back up through the stage, sitting face-toface, very close with a microphone between them. With their hands resting on each other's thighs, they sang "I Need You" and finished with a passionate kiss to thunderous cheers.
Looks like this marriage will last.
CONWAY - Here's the deal for the thousands of wannabe millionaires who have downloaded an Internet application form to audition here Saturday for a spot on the NBC television hit Deal or No Deal.
Complete the form - revealing name, address and other less-vital statistics such as "the most outrageous thing you've ever done." Show up on time, between 10 a.m. and 1 p.m., at the University of Central Arkansas' Farris Center.
Be prepared to wait as long as 10 hours for the 30-second videotaped audition.
... and, remember, Katie Couric didn't get where she is today by being cranky.
"You do have to be likable," said Greg Fieser, a casting associate for Lock and Key, the program's Los Angeles production company. "America has to like you and to want to see you do well." As of Sunday night, KARKTV, Channel 4, the NBC affiliate in Little Rock, had recorded 8,907 downloads of the application form on its Web site, said Tim Whitley, director of operations at KARK. Sister station KNWA in Fayetteville also has an online application. Updated numbers from that station were unavailable Monday afternoon, but Whitley said KNWA has had at least 2,500 downloads.
Still, no one knows exactly how many applicants to expect. Rob Thomas, creative director for KARK, explained Monday that each download doesn't neatly equate to one applicant. A would-be applicant might have downloaded a form, made a mistake and downloaded another copy. Or someone else might have checked the form solely out of curiosity.
"It doesn't necessarily translate into big numbers" actually showing up, he said.
Fieser, interviewed by telephone, said it's hard to tell but he figured maybe half the downloads will translate into applicants. Some people back out, he said, and "some give it to friends as a get-to-know-you type thing." Fieser, who will be at Farris Center, said similar auditions for the game show in St. Louis and New York drew about 5,000 entries, while one in Las Vegas attracted about 7,000. Another 2,800 turned out in Tulsa, said Fieser, who will be the first in the production company to go through Conway's videotaped auditions.
Applicants turn in their forms at Farris Center, which seats 5,000, and must be in the building by 1 p.m., when the doors will be closed.
"If people are in the door at 1 o'clock, they will get videotaped," Thomas said. "When they will get videotaped is a good question. ... We may not have them on camera until 8 o'clock that night." Deal or No Deal is a game of chance hosted by Howie Mandel and featuring an array of sexy female models. Contestants choose a briefcase and can stick with it or make a deal to accept a cash offer in exchange for the unknown dollar amount in their chosen briefcase. As the game progresses, they select other briefcases, each numbered and held by a model, and the dollar amounts from those cases are revealed. The contestants hope the lower-valued briefcases are revealed, because that improves the odds that they have a highvalue briefcase and also sweetens the cash offer.
Contestants on Deal or No Deal can leave with anywhere from a penny to $1 million, though the most anyone has taken home yet was $464,000, according to Fieser.
The application form for the program is one page, accompanied by a participation agreement.
Prospective guests are asked such innocuous questions as "What is the most interesting job you have ever had?" to "Can you roller blade?" They're also asked to confess "an embarrassing story" about themselves and to be a bit introspective: "What is the most interesting thing about you that strangers can't tell just by looking at you?" Fieser offered a few tips to auditioners. "My advice is to really be yourself," he said. "What we're looking for is personality. ... I look for people who are talkative and fun ... someone you want to be buddies with." Don't try pretending to be likable. "I write those people off immediately," Fieser said.
Shorts and tank tops are OK, but Fieser said people should avoid an unkempt appearance - no torn T-shirts or uncombed hair. "That says a lot about your personality. If they're going to be on a television show, they should look like they care to be on a TV show." He also advised against gimmick costumes and signs, saying such props distract from a person's personality.
"We have a lot of people who show up and do crazy stuff," Fieser said. "Sometimes that's their personality; sometimes it's not." Fieser said he's impressed by people "who can tell a great story, a funny story especially, and also show a sense of humor, humility about themselves." He said it could be two weeks to eight months before auditioners hear from the production company.
UCA spokesman Tommy Jackson said the university has notified Conway's police and fire departments of the event. UCA police also will be out in force.
Jackson said he expects some auditioners to camp out Friday night so that they can get spots at the front of the line Saturday. One who won't be trying out is UCA President Lu Hardin even though he's a fan of the program, Jackson said.

"The little white-gloved ladies who stand around and show the quilt - they love to bend the quilt over so people can see the back. Of course, those people go and get their friends so they can see the back," Harris said.
Gatling isn't above self-deprecating humor, either. He picks up a small quilted wall hanging he made; it's a self-portrait. On one side, it says, "How I See Myself" and shows a tan, muscular, macho guy. The other side, titled "How Others See Me," shows a balding, fat guy with prickly hairs all over and a quilt in one hand.
The family theme shows up in one of two Gatling creations on display in the Arkansas Quilters Show, "Pieces of Our Lives," at the Cox Creative Center in Little Rock's River Market area through July 22.
"Mama's Cookie Quilt" is what's known as a scrap quilt, with each block a different size. Designed on the computer using a cross-stitch program, it features five of his mother's cookie recipes in her own handwriting. It also includes a picture of his parents and a fringe of miniature cooking utensils, cookie cutters and toys.
Gatling, who is divorced and the father of one adult son, shares his home with Lucas, a feisty Shih Tzu, whose ferocity is more than a little exaggerated on the "Beware of Dog" sign on the wrought-iron gate outside.
The ranch-style house is home to far more than quilts. Gatling is an avid collector, too. He hoards some items for fun, others for quilt embellishments and some for sentimental reasons. He even has two dining tables; one came from a friend and one was his grandfather's.
In his studio, a visitor can look up to a wall shelf bedecked with a collection of light-reflecting colored bottles. Nearby, hang watercolors Gatling has painted. Open a bedroom closet door for a glimpse of the fabric dolls he's created, 25 of them.
"I have a nun doll, an aerobics doll, and I have a blind ballerina" who wears dark glasses.
Open another closet to find costumes, bow ties destined for use in a quilt, handkerchiefs, antique jewelry and gloves - "I have hundreds of gloves," he said.
Peek behind a bathroom door to find framed stamps of celebrities from Elvis Presley to Judy Garland. His Great Aunt Bea's washstand is there, too, along with the alligator shoes once worn by his mother and grandmother, and an alligator purse a friend gave him.

</file>

<file= AmE06_A42>

Millions of people will check out Katie Couric's debut today as the first woman to anchor a network newscast on her own, but the real change will take place at your desk and, depending on where you live, in your car.
The "CBS Evening News," broadcast home of such TV icons as Edward R. Murrow, Walter Cronkite and Dan Rather, is going high-tech, broadcasting on the Internet and radio stations around the country at the same time as it airs on TV. That's designed to create a younger audience for a program often considered the province of these viewers' parents and grandparents.
"It's an attempt to become multimedia in a world where most people get their news via the Internet or talk radio before they even get home," said Matthew Felling of the Washington, D.C.-based Center for Media and Public Affairs.
Both ABC and NBC have expanded their own Web offerings, as well - "NBC Nightly News' " Brian Williams has a blog and an afternoon Webcast precedes the evening news program - but CBS' latest moves are the biggest yet.
Still, Couric knows that much of the attention won't be on the program's content, or even its high-tech delivery options. Instead, some will focus on her hair, her wardrobe and whether her megawatt smile is suited to the traditionally serious, and male, job of presenting the day's news. Other critics will be searching for signs of "liberal bias," a charge that has dogged her for years.
"I think there are many more important things to write about," she told TV critics when the question of her personal style arose during a recent teleconference. "It's not something I'm really thinking about that much. It's about number 57 on my to-do list."
Breaking boundaries
Couric, 49, was named to succeed Dan Rather as CBS anchor in April, more than a year after Bob Schieffer took over as a temporary replacement. Schieffer will return to his old job as CBS' chief Washington correspondent, while Couric also will file stories for "60 Minutes," beginning with a story about 9/11 set to air Sunday.
She will be not only the first woman to serve as solo anchor of a network newscast - years after cable news broke that barrier - but the highest-paid, at $15 million a year. For that, after 15 years at NBC's early morning "Today" show, she is expected to do no less than save network news.
Viewership for the networks' evening news shows has been dropping for decades, with CBS long in third place. Schieffer pulled up the ratings, but CBS still lags behind NBC and ABC.
Publicly, Couric shrugs off the pressure.
"I'm just really interested in ... a quality newscast," she said. "I don't expect a huge ratings surge, and I'm honestly not focused on that."
Nevertheless, she has toured the country on a six-city "listening tour" to meet with viewers and given scores of interviews in anticipation of today's launch, talking with newspaper reporters and kibitzing with 50 of her counterparts at local affiliates around the country. She introduced a video tribute to Schieffer during his final show.
She even survived a mini brouhaha when CBS acknowledged last week that its publicity department had employed some computer sleight-of- hand to make Couric appear considerably slimmer in a photo that appeared in a magazine published by the network.
All, perhaps, good practice for the scrutiny that lies ahead.
Since 1980, evening news viewership has fallen about 48 percent, according to the Project for Excellence in Journalism. But that leaves about 25 million people still watching on an average evening, more than all cable news channels combined.
"I would love to be in decline like the network newscasts are," Felling said. "Are they slipping? Sure. But they're still the big kids in town."
Media evolution
The question is, will that last?
"We live in a different world," said Paul Levinson, chairman of the communications department at Fordham University in New York City. People often aren't home for the network news shows, 5:30 p.m. in the central time zone, 6:30 p.m. on the East and West Coasts.
"Media evolution takes time," he said. "That's why we still see 25 million (viewers). But the trajectory is going down."
Couric alone can't change that. But Levinson and others said that her skills, combined with CBS' technological juggernaut, might.
"Her experience is deep. She has amazing instincts," said Pat Mitchell, president and CEO of the Museum of Television & Radio, and former CEO of the PublicBroadcasting Service. "She connects with the audience in a very special way."
Helping navigate
Tonight's show will have new theme music and a new set, among other things.
How different it will be depends, in part, on how you define that.
"Of course it will look different, because it will have Katie there instead of Bob Schieffer," Mitchell said. "Will it be different? Not in big and bold and shocking ways, but I believe Katie is going to bring her own sensibilities and set of interests to it."
Rome Hartman, executive producer of the "Evening News," uses the word "storytelling" a lot to describe the new show.
"It's still going to be the "CBS Evening News," he said. "It's not going to be a headline service, although there will be some stories we just touch on briefly."
Couric will "help viewers navigate stories," Hartman said, both by asking follow-up questions of reporters and by doing some interviews herself.
"She's a terrific interviewer. That's not a talent you waste," he said.
Levinson predicts that Couric's influence will be seen in "the peripheral stories. We're going to see more human-interest stories."
The more lasting change, he said, will be the ability to hear the program regardless of where you are. "If you're in the office, I think, sure, people will look at it. It brings a certain live edge that the Internet often doesn't have."
Luring younger viewers
The Web simulcast will be one change. Radio - airing the program live over a radio station's broadcast signal - will be another. Hartman said he did not know how many radio stations will initially carry the show. (WCBS, an all-news radio station in New York City, will.
In Houston, CNN 650 simulcasts KHOU-TV's local broadcast at 5 p.m. but won't carry "The CBS Evening News," although it will offer several Couric-related Internet postings on its Web site, www.kikk.com .)
The goal, Hartman said, "is to get our work in front of more people, at more times, in more ways, on more devices. ... If someone watches a great Lara Logan story from Afghanistan on the Web site or hears it on a radio simulcast, that's fabulous. It's not an end in itself."
The Web site can provide a alternative to the limitations of a 30- minute newscast.
"If Katie does an interview with King Abdullah, and three minutes appear on the Evening News, the rest will be on the Web," Hartman said.
The point is to attract younger viewers, who don't necessarily think of the TV networks as a place to turn for news.
"If you want to lure a younger demographic, you must go multiplatform," Felling said. "Radio, TV, Internet, podcast. Anything to keep yourself in front of people."
NEW YORK - David Letterman is planning to outlast Jay Leno in late-night television.
CBS Corp. and Letterman have agreed to a four-year contract extension that will keep the comic on the Late Show through the 2009- 10 television season, according to two executives familiar with the negotiations who spoke on condition of anonymity Thursday because the deal wasn't fully done.
That would keep Letterman, 59, on the air past NBC's planned 2009 hand-off of the Tonight Show job from Leno to Conan O'Brien.
Financial details of the new deal were not known, but the Hollywood Reporter, citing unnamed sources, said the new deal should keep Letterman in the same salary territory as his 2002 contract, which was for about $31.5 million per year.
Leno and Letterman have been competing in late-night since 1993, after NBC chose Leno for Tonight and Letterman jumped to CBS.
For most of that time, Leno has had the upper hand in the ratings. For the past year, Leno has averaged 5.71 million viewers each night to Letterman's 4.16, according to Nielsen Media Research.
That gap is more than 200,000 viewers wider than the previous year, mostly due to Letterman's audience shrinking, Nielsen said.
Letterman has suffered through health problems in recent years that has led to some speculation that he might not want to do the job much longer. Heart surgery in 2000 and a case of shingles in 2003 kept Letterman off the air for brief periods.
Who's your gold buddy?
When Christopher Alley of Vineyard Haven, Mass., found out he was a finalist for the $100,000 pop-culture trivia competition in Houston, he shot a message to a fellow "Gold Rush'' fan in Somerville, Mass., asking if Mark Behnke would be his gold buddy.
"I told him: `Sorry, I can't. I'm going to be your competitor,' " Behnke recalls. Alley and Behnke had to find other gold buddies, contacts whom gamers are allowed to call for help during the competition - like a mobile shout-out on "Cash Cab'' or a lifeline on "Who Wants to Be a Millionaire?''
Alley, Behnke and David Gholson of Knoxville, Tenn., were fourth- round winners of "Survivor'' producer Mark Burnett's Internet game. Tuesday they were at Space Center Houston at 5:30 a.m. to compete in three challenges. And Wednesday morning, winner Alley was fielding media interviews. The 21-year-old chef was talking about using the money to get a fresh start and move from the only home he has ever known. He also wants to buy a new car for his mother and himself.
Today you can see the competition at aol.com/goldrush.
Alley says he was drawn to "Gold Rush'' because you don't have to eat any bugs, knock out anybody, compete in the boardroom or get fired. "You just use your seemingly useless pop-culture knowledge," he said.
The six-week contest, which began Sept. 13, challenges online players to answer trivia questions that get progressively harder. Winners of each round will compete for $1 million.
"Gold Rush'' does cross-promotion with its sponsors and often uses CBS television series as fodder for the game. For example, the answer to a rebus puzzle was "CSI: Miami,'' and the tribal names of this season's "Survivor: Cook Island'' have come into play.
Online players looking for assistance have started their own Web sites. Alley and Behnke met through groups.myspace.com/ goldrushgroup, which gives clues and support, but no answers. Every time Alley finished a round, he would post his time at myspace.com and offer to help others.
Behnke, 46, suspects there will be more interest in the group when gamers find out that two members came in first and second in the Houston challenge. Gholson, 48, who came in third, doesn't play with buddy groups.
All three finalists agree that experience helps, and they get better with each round. Watching aol.com's recaps also helps players figure out some strategies. For example, all the questions at Space Center Houston were sci-fi related. Answers pertained to "Star Trek,'' "The Jetsons,'' "Star Wars,'' "The X-Files'' and "Men in Black.'' The game's next stop is New Orleans on Saturday.
It's a whirlwind production involving films crews, moving sets, setting up new games concocted by the Survivor gurus and scheduling for host Mark Steines and field correspondent Tracy Metro.
"I forget about time. I know I have a wife and two kids somewhere," said Steines of "Entertainment Tonight.''
Steines had to leave at 2 p.m. Tuesday to catch a plane for an "ET'' appointment with Teri Hatcher in Los Angeles. Then it was off to Toronto to interview John Travolta before heading to New Orleans for Round 5.
Winner Alley was just thinking about getting home after making this morning's appearance on CBS' "The Early Show.''

</file>

<file= AmE06_A43>

He's facing foreclosure on his Wilmette mansion, he's behind on his property taxes and his pizza business is in ruins.

So why would Antoin "Tony" Rezko return to this country to answer public corruption charges?

"We don't think Tony's coming back," said an associate of Rezko's, speaking on condition of anonymity. "Why would he?"

That was the question on the minds of federal prosecutors, too, when Rezko -- a top fund-raiser for Gov. Blagojevich -- failed to show up for court hearings before two judges on Friday.

Rezko's lawyer, Joseph Duffy, insisted his client was not on the lam, but just tending to business overseas. Duffy wouldn't specify Rezko's location.

Though Duffy arranged new court dates for next week, prosecutors were skeptical.

"We don't necessarily take the word of Mr. Rezko that he is returning," Assistant U.S. Attorney Christopher Niewoehner said.

Niewoehner told U.S. District Judge Amy St. Eve that Rezko's absence "raises concerns" that the Syrian-born businessman cares little about appearing in court on his indictment. "It does suggest that Mr. Rezko had other priorities other than this court case," Niewoehner said.

St. Eve let an arrest warrant for Rezko, 51, stand and asked for Rezko's travel itinerary. The warrant calls for detaining Rezko without bond.

There was no public indication the government attempted to freeze Rezko's assets. And it was unclear Friday just how much is left to seize.

Rezko, a onetime millionaire, appeared to be burdened with debt, liens and civil legal actions.

$30,000 A MONTH MORTGAGE

On Tuesday, LaSalle Bank National Association
filed a foreclosure lawsuit on Rezko's Wilmette mansion. The suit alleges Rezko and his wife, Rita, haven't made their $30,000-a-month-plus mortgage payment since August and owe more than $5 million in principal, $96,108 in interest and at least $3,290 in late fees.

Also, $25,000 in taxes on Rezko's mansion are more than a month late.

Besides that, civil litigation against Rezko is mounting. A friend and business associate, Semir D. Sirazi, sued him Thursday alleging Rezko bilked him out of millions of dollars in a loan arrangement.

And Papa John's International,
a pizza chain that helped Rezko build his fortune, has accused him in a civil racketeering lawsuit of defrauding the company.

Given Rezko's financial troubles, some investigators long have theorized that Rezko wouldn't return from overseas, sources said.

But the Rezko family's roots are in the north suburbs, including three children, some of whom are enrolled in school. Another restaurant chain with which Rezko is involved, Panda Express, remains successful. And Rezko is expected to make a fortune on a lucrative overseas venture: building a power plant in Iraq.

Beyond that, Rezko going on the lam could embarrass his friend Blagojevich, who is up for re-election Nov. 7.

Duffy said there's nothing unusual about Rezko's travels and that Rezko left the country without knowing of the impending charges.

"I spoke with him this morning, and he said he's aware of his obligations as a citizen, and he's prepared to meet that obligation," Duffy said. "Mr. Rezko feels strongly about these charges in that they're baseless."

MUST APPEAR NEXT THURSDAY

U.S. District Judge James Zagel gave Rezko until next Thursday to appear for an arraignment, while St. Eve gave him until Friday.

Duffy wouldn't specify his client's location, saying outside of court: "I reported what I knew."

Rezko, Duffy added, had been in contact with the feds since 2004 and offered to talk to them. "They never took up the offer," nor did they warn him of the charges, Duffy said.

U.S. Attorney Patrick Fitzgerald announced charges against Rezko on Wednesday, saying Rezko took part in a "pay-to-play scheme on steroids."

In a 24-count indictment, Rezko is accused of demanding kickbacks from firms wanting to do business with the state. Rezko used his clout with high-ranking state officials to work many of the deals, and in one scheme demanded $1.5 million in campaign donations for Blagojevich, according to charges. That case is before St. Eve.

Blagojevich has denied any knowledge of Rezko's actions.

In the case before Zagel, Rezko is accused of falsely obtaining $10 million in loans for his pizza businesses.; 

Let's connect the dots, shall we?

Those imagining a "War Against Christmas," those claiming nativity scenes belong on government land, or condemning the phrase "Season's Greetings'' for not adequately conveying the idea that the holiday season is all about Jesus Christ, Your Personal Lord and Savior, who are they, exactly?

Why, they are the very same people who try all year long to make this nation even more of a one-faith theocracy than it already is.

Therein lies the issue. A lot of folk would be less anxious about religious trappings in December were the other 11 months of the year not spent grimly fending off the advances of faith, battling whether the school science curriculum should be shredded in the name of Christianity, or women stripped of the right to control their own bodies, or a particular form of prayer be thrust back into the public schools.

Holidays are a time of joy, but not abandon. Those who insist this is about honoring a holiday are like the creepy relative saying, "C'mon, give your old Uncle Pete a hug!" to his cringing nieces who know that it is not just a hug he's after, but a pat and a squeeze and a lick in the ear, too.

Bottom line: There's plenty of Christmas without the government underwriting the holiday. "Save it for church" might sound harsh at this festive season, and were it not required as a year-round mantra, we wouldn't need it so much now. But we do.

ELABORATION

Arggghhh. . . .

Permit me a visceral groan of frustration. And again.

Double arggghhhh. . . .

I'm a word guy. Or try to be. I believe words are important, attempt to choose the proper word for a particular circumstance. Right tool for the job.

At least a dozen readers, including my mother, pointed out that I referred to the light-admitting plastic roofs of UPS trucks as "opaque." Some were polite. Others not. One scolded me in verse. Another found deepest significance in the blunder.

"Just more evidence that we are witnessing the collapse of Western Civilization," wrote Fritz Plous.

I hadn't looked the word up. Thought I knew it. Thought "opaque" expressed a certain quality of milkiness, one -- if I may defend an error -- indeed present in the definition of "opaque" in my New Oxford American Dictionary: "not able to be seen through; not transparent: the windows were opaque with steam."

That is not the end of the story, however. The complaining readers cleaved to a more stringent standard, such as the one in my Merriam-Webster's Collegiate Dictionary: "blocking the passage of radiant energy and esp. light."

"Impenetrable by light; neither transparent nor translucent," says the American Heritage Dictionary definition sent in by yet another reader.

"The word you should have used is 'translucent,' " said my mother.

Right again, Mom. The Sun-Times regrets the infelicitous word choice.

IT'LL HAPPEN EVENTUALLY . . .

Sometime along the way, American leadership became the art of finding out exactly what most people want and then spoon-feeding it back to them.

Thus the unpopular changes that should get done, that must get done, instead never get done. And the years roll by.

Take the copper penny and the paper dollar. Pennies are a bother -- nobody wants them, they gather in dusty bowls, collect in coffee cans. The cost in time lost, fumbling for pennies, nationwide has to be in the big bucks.

If the government announced tomorrow we were phasing pennies out -- say in 2009, the centennial of the Lincoln cent -- the same 500 people who are against every change would howl and the other 300 million would heave a sigh of relief and round prices to the nearest nickel.

It makes sense. Yet our lack of political leadership is such that, for the sake of the 500 complainers, nothing gets done.

The paper dollar is worse. Canada doesn't have a paper dollar. Britain doesn't have a paper pound note.

They use coins instead -- they last longer, save money and, face it, a dollar isn't that much money anymore.

Why could they do it, but we can't?

A judge last week even said that dollar bills discriminate against the blind.

A perfect time to ditch them. It's the only way those presidential dollars the mint is rolling out will be of interest to more than just collectors.

A perfect time to change. . . . And I know just the man to do it, to lead:

Sen. Barack Obama.

Sure, people project all sorts of superhuman powers upon the junior senator from Illinois. He will bind up our country. He will unleash the better angels of our nature. He will make us happy, make us whole.

Obama seems to lean toward big ideas -- how to begin to clear up the mess in Iraq, for instance.

Maybe he will, eventually. In the meantime, why not start small? There are pennies to be pitched and dollar bills to be shredded. Is it beneath his globe-spanning attention? Why should it be? Dumping pennies and paper dollars will be money-saving, worthwhile, easy, and not even politically risky. Nobody will ever miss them.

We need to be a nation that acts, that is capable of handling problems. If we cannot get rid of the penny and the dollar bill, we can't do anything. If Barack Obama isn't willing to do this important, tiny, timely bit of governmental business, really, what is it he's willing to do?

TODAY'S CHUCKLE:

In honor of Charlie Trotter's announcing that he will open a new restaurant, a restaurant joke:

After a delicious lunch in an Italian restaurant, the well-traveled businesswoman called the chef over to compliment him.

"Your lasagna was better than one I ate in Milan Tuesday," she told the blushing chef.

"It is not surprising," said the chef, proudly. "They use domestic cheese, while here we use imported."; 

Two weeks ago while patrolling Iraq's Al Anbar province, Lance Cpl. Jon Green's truck hit a roadside bomb.

The 22-year-old Marine from Palatine suffered second- and third-degree burns to his face. Four buddies in the truck were also wounded, some far more severely. They've all been recovering in a Texas hospital.

Just before Jon came back Friday to Palatine on a 30-day leave from the hospital, his parents, Rick and Kim, were asked by a state official what he needed.

"We didn't talk about a whole heck of a lot of things that he would like to do on his 30-day leave, but the one thing he did say was, 'I've never been to Soldier Field. I've never seen the Bears,' " his father said. "Everybody in Iraq has become instant Bear fans because they're 7-0. He said, 'I would love to see the Bears play.' "

Consider it a wish fulfilled.

Rick Green returned the call to the state official -- Lt. Gov. Pat Quinn's senior policy adviser Eric Schuller -- and set the wheels in motion. Soon, WLS-AM (890) morning host Eileen Byrne was telling her listeners about Jon. They began flooding the phones with ticket offers. Calls came in to the Bears as well.

A SKYBOX SEAT AND CASH

Finally, the perfect opportunity came -- a skybox seat that would keep Jon out of the chilly weather. Someone else dropped off some Bears sweatshirts and spending money. Another guy offered a limo (the Greens turned that down).

Jon and his father will be in that skybox today, soaking up the Bears and a lot of love from Chicagoans.

"It brings tears to our eyes that there are people who are so supportive of the troops over there," Rick said.

Said Jon: "Some people will tell you 'You're appreciated,' and some don't care. It's good to hear about all the people who appreciate what they guys are still doing over there.";

</file>

<file= AmE06_A44>

In 2004, according to census estimates, 63.1 percent of Americans under sixty-five received health insurance through their employers or family members' employers. Given the inherent difficulties of providing health insurance through the private sector, that's an impressive number. But it left more than a third of nonelderly Americans out of the system. Moreover, the number of outsiders is growing: the share of nonelderly Americans with employment-based health insurance was 67.7 percent as recently as 2000. And this trend seems certain to continue, even accelerate, because the whole system of employer-based health care is under severe strain.

We can identify several reasons for that strain, but mainly it comes down to the issue of costs. Providing health insurance looked like a good way for employers to reward their employees when it was a small part of the pay package. Today, however, the annual cost of coverage for a family of four is estimated by the Kaiser Family Foundation at more than $10,000. One way to look at it is to say that that's roughly what a worker earning minimum wage and working full time earns in a year. It's more than half the annual earnings of the average Wal-Mart employee.

Health care costs at current levels override the incentives that have historically supported employer-based health insurance. Now that health costs loom so large, companies that provide generous benefits are in effect paying some of their workers much more than the going wage - or, more to the point, more than competitors pay similar workers. Inevitably, this creates pressure to reduce or eliminate health benefits. And companies that can't cut benefits enough to stay competitive - such as GM - find their very existence at risk.

Rising health costs have also ended the ability of employer-based insurance plans to avoid the problem of adverse selection. Anecdotal evidence suggests that workers who know they have health problems actively seek out jobs with companies that still offer generous benefits. On the other side, employers are starting to make hiring decisions based on likely health costs. For example, an internal Wal-Mart memo, reported by The New York Times in October, suggested adding tasks requiring physical exertion to jobs that don't really require it as a way to screen out individuals with potential health risks.

o rising health care costs are undermining the institution of employer-based coverage. We'd suggest that the drop in the number of insured so far only hints at the scale of the problem: we may well be seeing the whole institution unraveling.

Notice that this unraveling is the byproduct of what should be a good thing: advances in medical technology, which lead doctors to spend more on their patients. This leads to higher insurance costs, which causes employers to stop providing health coverage. The result is that many people are thrown into the world of the uninsured, where even basic care is often hard to get. As we said, we rob Peter of basic care in order to provide Paul with state-of-the-art treatment.

Fortunately, some of the adverse consequences of the decline in employer-based coverage have been muted by a crucial government program, Medicaid. But Medicaid is facing its own pressures.

3.

Medicaid and Medicare

The US health care system is more privatized than that of any other advanced country, but nearly half of total health care spending nonetheless comes from the government. Most of this government spending is accounted for by two great social insurance programs, Medicare and Medicaid. Although Medicare gets most of the public attention, let's focus first on Medicaid, which is a far more important program than most middle-class Americans realize.

In The Health Care Mess Richmond and Fein tell us that Medicaid, like employer-based health insurance, came into existence through a sort of historical accident. As Lyndon Johnson made his big push to create Medicare, the American Medical Association, in a last-ditch effort to block so-called "socialized medicine" (actually only the insurance is socialized; the medical care is provided by the private sector), began disparaging Johnson's plan by claiming that it would do nothing to help the truly needy. In a masterful piece of political jujitsu, Johnson responded by adding a second program, Medicaid, targeted specifically at helping the poor and near poor.

Today, Medicaid is a crucial part of the American safety net. In 2004 Medicaid covered almost as many people as its senior partner, Medicare - 37.5 million versus 39.7 million.

edicaid has grown rapidly in recent years because it has been picking up the slack from the unraveling system of employer-based insurance. Between 2000 and 2004 the number of Americans covered by Medicaid rose by a remarkable eight million. Over the same period the ranks of the uninsured rose by six million. So without the growth of Medicaid, the uninsured population would have exploded, and we'd be facing a severe crisis in medical care.

But Medicaid, even as it becomes increasingly essential to tens of millions of Americans, is also becoming increasingly vulnerable to political attack. To some extent this reflects the political weakness of any means-tested program serving the poor and near poor. As the British welfare scholar Richard Titmuss said, "Programs for the poor are poor programs." Unlike Medicare's clients - the feared senior group - Medicaid recipients aren't a potent political constituency: they are, on average, poor and poorly educated, with low voter participation. As a result, funding for Medicaid depends on politicians' sense of decency, always a fragile foundation for policy.

The complex structure of Medicaid also makes it vulnerable. Unlike Medicare, which is a purely federal program, Medicaid is a federal-state matching program, in which states provide on average about 40 percent of the funds. Since state governments, unlike the federal government, can't engage in open-ended deficit financing, this dependence on state funds exposes Medicaid to pressure whenever state budgets are hard-pressed. And state budgets are hard-pressed these days for a variety of reasons, not least the rapidly rising cost of Medicaid itself.

The result is that, like employer-based health insurance, Medicaid faces a possible unraveling in the face of rising health costs. An example of how that unraveling might take place is South Carolina's request for a waiver of federal rules to allow it to restructure the state's Medicaid program into a system of private accounts. We'll discuss later in this essay the strange persistence, in the teeth of all available evidence, of the belief that the private sector can provide health insurance more efficiently than the government. The main point for now is that South Carolina's proposed reform would seriously weaken the medical safety net: recipients would be given a voucher to purchase health insurance, but many would find the voucher inadequate, and would end up being denied care. And if South Carolina gets its waiver, other states will probably follow its lead.

edicare's situation is very different. Unlike employer-based insurance or Medicaid, Medicare faces no imminent threat of large cuts. Although the federal government is deep in deficit, it's not currently having any difficulty borrowing, largely from abroad, to cover the gap. Also, the political constituency behind Medicare remains extremely powerful. Yet federal deficits can't go on forever; even the US government must eventually find a way to pay its bills. And the long-term outlook for federal finances is dire, mainly because of Medicare and Medicaid.

The chart in figure 1 illustrates the centrality of health care costs to America's long-term budget problems. The chart shows the Congressional Budget Office's baseline projection of spending over the next twenty-five years on the three big entitlement programs, Social Security, Medicare, and Medicaid, measured as a percentage of GDP. Not long ago advocates of Social Security privatization tried to use projections like this one to foster a sense of crisis about the retirement system. As was pointed out last year in these pages,1 however, there is no program called Socialsecuritymedicareandmedicaid. In fact, as the chart shows, Social Security, whose costs will rise solely because of the aging of the population, represents only a small part of the problem. Most of the problem comes from the two health care programs, whose spending is rising mainly because of the general rise in medical costs.

To be fair, there is a demographic component to Medicare and Medicaid spending too - Medicare because it only serves Americans over sixty-five, Medicaid because the elderly, although a minority of the program's beneficiaries, account for most of its spending. Still, the principal factor in both programs' rising costs is what the CBO calls "excess cost growth" - the persistent tendency of health care spending per beneficiary to grow faster than per capita income, owing to advancing medical technology. Without this excess cost growth, the CBO estimates that entitlement spending would rise by only 3.7 percent of GDP over the next twenty-five years. That's a significant rise, but not overwhelming, and could be addressed with moderate tax increases and possibly benefit cuts. But because of excess cost growth the projected rise in spending is a crushing burden - about 10 percent of GDP over the next twenty-five years, and even more thereafter.

Rising health care spending, then, is driving a triple crisis. The fastest-moving piece of that crisis is the unraveling of employer-based coverage. There's a gradually building crisis in Medicaid. And there's a long-term federal budget crisis driven mainly by rising health care spending.

So what are we going to do about health care?

4.

The "consumer-directed" diversion

As we pointed out at the beginning of this essay, one of the two big reasons to be concerned about rising spending on health care is that as the health care sector grows, its inefficiency becomes increasingly important. And almost everyone agrees that the US health care system is extremely inefficient. But there are wide disagreements about the nature of that inefficiency. And the analysts who have the ear of the Bush administration are committed, for ideological reasons, to a view that is clearly wrong.

We've already alluded to the underlying view behind the Bush administration's health care proposals: it's the view that insurance leads people to consume too much health care. The 2004 Economic Report of the President, which devoted a chapter to health care, illustrated the alleged problem with a parable about the clothing industry:

Suppose, for example, that an individual could purchase a clothing insurance policy with a "coinsurance" rate of 20 percent, meaning that after paying the insurance premium, the holder of the insurance policy would have to pay only 20 cents on the dollar for all clothing purchases. An individual with such a policy would be expected to spend substantially more on clothes - due to larger quantity and higher quality purchases - with the 80 percent discount than he would at the full price ... . The clothing insurance example suggests an inherent inefficiency in the use of insurance to pay for things that have little intrinsic risk or uncertainty.

The report then asserts that "inefficiencies of this sort are pervasive in the US health care system" - although, tellingly, it fails to match the parable about clothing with any real examples from health care.

The view that Americans consume too much health care because insurers pay the bills leads to what is currently being called the "consumer-directed" approach to health care reform. The virtues of such an approach are the theme of John Cogan, Glenn Hubbard, and Daniel Kessler's Healthy, Wealthy, and Wise. The main idea is that people should pay more of their medical expenses out of pocket. And the way to reduce public reliance on insurance, reformers from the right wing believe, is to remove the tax advantages that currently favor health insurance over out-of-pocket spending. Indeed, last year Bush's tax reform commission proposed taxing some employment-based health benefits. The administration, recognizing how politically explosive such a move would be, rejected the proposal. Instead of raising taxes on health insurance, the administration has decided to cut taxes on out-of-pocket spending.

Cogan, Hubbard, and Kessler call for making all out-of-pocket medical spending tax-deductible, although tax experts from both parties say that this would present an enforcement nightmare.

</file>

