<file= AmE06_M01>

PROLOGUE
Oxford, England. July 1863.
Everyone thought she had made it up, and she had tolerated more taunting and teasing from other children, more lectures and punishments from grown-ups, than any eleven-year-old should have to bear. But now, after four years, it had arrived: her last, best chance to prove to them all that she had been telling the truth. A college scholar had thought enough of her history to write it up as a book.
She sat on a blanket on the banks of the river Cherwell, the remains of a picnic lunch in a basket at the Reverend Charles Dodgson's elbow. She held the book in her hands. He had written and illustrated it himself, he said. It had a nice weight and heft, felt substantial. It was wrapped in brown paper and tied with a black ribbon. Dodgson was watching her, anxious. Her sisters Edith and Lorina were hunting minnows at the river's edge. She untied the ribbon, carefully undid the wrapping.
''Oh!'' Alice's Adventures Underground? What sort of title was that? And why was her name misspelled? She had told Dodgson how to correctly spell her name, had even written it out for him. ''By Lewis Carroll?'' she read with growing concern.
''I thought it would be more festive than saying it was by a reverend.''
Festive? She had told him little that was festive. Concern was fast turning to alarm, but she swallowed it. What mattered was that he had faithfully recorded her history in Wonderland as she remembered it.
She opened the book and admired its rough-cut pages, the neatness of the handwriting. But the dedication took the form of a poem, in which her name was again misspelled, and she didn't think the lighthearted rhyme scheme appropriate, considering the material it was supposed to introduce. Her gaze caught on one of the stanzas:
The dream-child moving through a land 
Of wonders, wild and new, 
In friendly chat with bird or beast  -  
And half believed it true.
Dream-child? And what did he mean by half believed?
She turned to the first chapter and immediately felt as if her insides had been scooped out, like the half grapefruits Dean Liddell ate for breakfast every morning, after which only raw, pulpy hollows remained. Down a rabbit hole? Where had the worrisome White Rabbit come from?
''Alice, is something wrong?''
She skipped ahead, turned page after page. The Pool of Tears, the caterpillar, her aunt Redd: It had all been twisted into nonsense.
''I admit that I took a few liberties with your story,'' Dodgson explained, ''to make it ours, as I said I would. Do you recognize the tutor fellow you once described to me? He's the White Rabbit character. I got the idea for him upon discovering that the letters of the tutor's name could be made to spell 'white rabbit.' Here, let me show you.''
Dodgson took a pencil and small notebook from the inside pocket of his coat, but she didn't want to look. He had indeed said it would be their book, his and hers, and she had found strength in that  -  strength to suffer the indignities that came from insisting on truths no one else believed. But what she held in her hands had nothing to do with her.
''You mean you did it on purpose?'' she asked.
The grinning Cheshire cat. The mad tea party. He'd transformed her memories of a world alive with hope and possibility and danger into make-believe, the foolish stuff of children. He was just another in a long line of unbelievers and this  -  this stupid, nonsensical book  -  was how he made fun of her. She had never felt more betrayed in all her life.
''No one is ever going to believe me now!'' she screamed. ''You've ruined everything! You're the cruelest man I've ever met, Mr. Dodgson, and if you had believed a single word I told you, you'd know how very cruel that is! I never want to see you again! Never, never, never!''
She ran, leaving Edith and Lorina to make their own way home, leaving the Reverend Dodgson  -  who considered children to be spirits fresh from God's hands, their smiles divine, and who thought there could be no greater endeavor than devoting all of his powers to a task for which the only reward was a child's whispered thanks and the airy touch of her pure lips  -  shaken, unsure of what had just happened.
He picked up the book, still warm from Alice Liddell's touch, not knowing that it was as close to her as he'd ever be again.

CHAPTER 1
THE QUEENDOM had been enjoying a tentative peace ever since the time, twelve years earlier, when unbridled bloodshed spattered the doorstep of every Wonderlander. The civil war hadn't been the longest in all of recorded history, but no doubt it was one of the bloodiest. Those who had entered a little too quickly into the carnage and destruction had trouble adapting to life during peacetime. When hostilities ceased, they ran amok on the streets of Wonderland's capital city, looting and pillaging Wondertropolis until Queen Genevieve had them rounded up and shipped off to the Crystal Mines - a spiderweb-like network of tunnels carved in a far-off mountainside, where those unwilling to abide by the laws of decent society lived in windowless dormitories and labored to excavate crystal from the unforgiving mountain. Even after these people were taken off the streets, the peace that settled on Wonderland was nothing like that which had existed before the war. A third of Wondertropolis' quartz-like buildings had to be rebuilt. The smooth turquoise amphitheater had suffered damage in an air raid, as had the public works towers and spires sporting fiery, reflective pyrite skin. But the scars of war are not always visible. Although Queen Genevieve ruled her queendom judiciously, with care for the well-being of her people, the monarchy had forever been weakened. The coalition of Diamond, Club, and Spade dynasties that made up Parliament were falling apart. The matriarchs of the families were jealous of Genevieve's power. Each thought she could rule Wonderland better then the queen. Each watched and waited for an opportunity to wrest control from her, keeping a none-too-friendly eye on the other families in case they happened to make a move first. 

Entertaining no thoughts of war, Princess Alyss Heart stood on the balcony of Heart Palace with her mother, Queen Genevieve. The city was in the midst of a jubilant gala. From the Everlasting Forest to the Valley of Mushrooms, Wonderlanders had come to celebrate the seventh birthday of their future queen, who, as it happened, was bored out of her wits. Alyss knew she could do a lot worse than be Queen of Wonderland, but even a future monarch doesn't always want to do what she is supposed to do - like site through hours of pageantry. She would rather have hidden with her friend Dodge in one of the palace towers, dropping jollyjellies from an open window and watching them splat on the guards below. Dodge wouldn't like the jollyjelly bit - guardsmen deserved better treatment, he'd say - but that would only make it more fun. 

Where was Dodge anyway? She hadn't seen him all morning, and it wasn't nice to avoid the birthday girl on her birthday. She searched for him among the Wonderlanders gathered to watch the Inventors' Parade on the cobbled lane below. No sign of him. He was probably off doing something fun; whatever it was had to be more fun than being stuck here, forced to watch Wonderlanders show off their silly contraptions. Bibwit Harte, the royal tutor, had explained to her that most of Wonderland took pride in the Inventors' Parade, the one time every year when citizens flaunted their skills and ingenuity before the queen. If Genevieve saw something in the parade that she thought particularly good, she would send it into the Heart Crystal - a thirty-three-foot-tall, fifty-two-foot-wide shimmering crystal on the palace grounds, the power source for all creation. Whatever passed into the crystal went out into the universe to inspire imaginations in other worlds. If a Wonderlander bounced in front of Queen Genevieve on a spring-operated stick with handlebars and footrests and she passed this curious invention into the crystal, before long, in one civilization or another, a pogo stick would be invented. 

Still, Alyss wondered, what was the big deal? Having to stand here until her feet hurt - it was punishment. 

"I wish Father was here." 

"He's due back form Boarderland at any moment," said Queen Genevieve. "But since the rest of Wonderland is here, I suggest you try to enjoy yourself for their sake. That's interesting, don't you think?" 

They watched as a man floated down from the sky with what looked like a hollow mushroom cap strapped to his back. 

"It's pretty good, I suppose," said Alyss, "but it'd be better if it were furry." 

And with that, the mushroom contraption was suddenly covered with fur, its inventor falling to the ground with a thump. 

Queen Genevieve frowned. 

"He's late," Alyss said. "He promised he'd be here. I don't understand why he had to make a trip so close to my birthday." 

There were reasons, as the queen well knew. Intelligence had indicated that they may have already waited too long. Unconfirmed reports suggested Redd was growing more powerful, outfitting her troops for an attack, and Genevieve was no longer sure that her military could provide adequate defense. She was as keen as Alyss for King Nolan's return, but she had determined to enjoy the day's festivities. 

"Ooh, look at that," she said, pointing at a woman wiggling as she walked so as to keep a large hoop swinging round and round her waist." That looks diverting." 

"It'd be more fun if it had fountains of water coming out of it," Alyss said, and immediately the hoop was spurting water from tiny holes all along its surface, the surprised inventor still wiggling to keep it swinging round and round. 

"Birthday or not, Alyss," Queen Genevieve said, "I don't think it's nice to show off." 

The fur on the first-ever parachute vanished. The fountains of water on the newly invented hula hoop dried up. The power of Alyss' imagination had made them appear and disappear. Imagination was an important part of life in Wonderland, and Alyss had the most powerful imagination ever seen in a seven year-old Wonderlander. But as with any formidable talent, Alyss' imagination could be used for good or ill, and the queen saw mild reasons for concern. Hardly one revolution of the Thurmite moon had passed since Alyss' last incident: Impatient with young Jack of Diamonds for some childish indiscretion, she's imagined his trousers filled with slick, squiggling gwormmies. Jack of Diamonds had said he "felt something funny," looked down, and saw that his trousers were moving, alive. He'd been having nightmares ever since. Alyss claimed not to have done it on purpose, which may or may not have been true, Genevieve couldn't tell. Alyss didn't yet have full control of her imaginative powers, but the girl would say anything to get out of trouble. 

"You will be the strongest queen yet," she told her daughter. "Your imagination will be the crowning achievement of the land. But Alyss, you must work hard to develop it according to the guiding principles of the Heart dynasty - love, justice, and duty to the people. An undisciplined imagination is worse than no imagination at all. It can do more harm. Remember what happened to your aunt Redd." 

"I know," Alyss said sulkily. She had never met her aunt Redd, but she'd heard storied about the woman for as long as she could remember. She didn't bother trying to understand it all; it was history - boring boring boring. But she knew that to be like her aunt Redd wasn't good. 

"Now that's enough lecturing for one princess' birthday," Queen Genevieve said.

</file>

<file= AmE06_M02>

He is fast asleep in his bed on the night that the demon and the once-men come for his family. They have been watching the compound for days, studying its walls and the routine of the guards who ward them. They have waited patiently for their chance, and now it has arrived. An advance party is over the walls and past the guards. They have opened the gates from the inside to let in the others, and now all are pouring into the compound. In less than five minutes, everything has been lost. 

He doesn't realize this when his father shakes him awake, but he knows something is wrong. 

"Logan, get up." Urgency and fear are apparent in his father's voice. 

Logan blinks against the beam of the flashlight his father holds, one of two they still possess. He sees his brother dressing across the way, pulling on his shirt and pants, moving quickly, anxiously. Tyler isn't griping, isn't saying anything, doesn't even look over at him. 

His father bends close, his strong features all planes and angles at the edges of the flashlight's beam. His big hand grips his son's shoulder and squeezes. "It's time for us to leave here, Logan. Put on your clothes and your pack and wait by the trapdoor with Tyler. Your mother and I will be along with Megan." 

His sister. He looks around, but doesn't see her. Outside, there is shouting and the sound of gunfire. A battle is being fought. He knows now what has happened, even without seeing it. He has heard it talked about all of his life, the day their enemies would find a way to break through, the day that the walls and gates and guards and defenses would finally give way. It has happened all across the United States. It has happened all over the world. No one is safe anywhere. Maybe no one will ever be safe again. 

He rises quickly now and dresses. His brother already has his pack strapped across his back and tosses Logan his. The packs have been sitting in a corner of his bedroom for as far back as he can remember. Each month, they are unpacked, checked, and repacked. His father is a careful man, a planner, a survivor. He has always assumed this day would come, even though he assured his family it would not. Logan was not fooled. His father did not speak of it directly, but in the spaces between the words of reassurance were silent warnings. Logan did not miss them, did not ignore their implications. 

"Hurry, slug," Tyler hisses at him, going out the door. 

He finishes fastening his boots, throws his pack over his shoulder, and hurries after his brother. The shouts are growing louder now, more frantic. There are screams, as well. He feels curiously removed from all of it, as if it were happening to people with whom he had no connection, even though these are his friends and neighbors. He feels light-headed, and there is a buzzing in his ears. Maybe he has gotten up too fast, has rushed himself the way he does sometimes without allowing his body to adjust to a sudden change. 

Maybe it is just the first of many adjustments he is going to have to make in his life. 

He knows what is going to happen now. His father has told them all, taking care to use the word if rather than the word when. They are going to have to escape through the tunnels and flee into the surrounding countryside. They are going to have to abandon their home and all their possessions because otherwise they will be caught and killed. The demons and the once-men have made it clear from the beginning that those who choose to shut themselves away in the compounds will not be spared once their defenses are breached. It is punishment for defiance, but it is a warning, too. 

If you want to survive, you have to place yourself in our hands. 

No one believes this is true, of course. No one can survive outside the compounds. Not as a free man or woman. Not with the plagues and poisons in the air, water, and soil. Not with the slave camps to take you in and swallow you up. Not with the Freaks and the monsters running amok in cities and towns and villages everywhere. 

Not with the demons and once-men seeking to exterminate the human race. 

Not in this brave new world. 

Logan knows this even though he is only eight years old. He knows it because he is dreaming it, reliving it twenty years later. His understanding of its truths transcends time and place; he embraces the knowledge in the form of memories. He knows it the way he already knows how things will end. 

He is standing with Tyler in front of the trapdoor when his father reaches them, ushering his mother and sister into place. "Stay together," he tells them, glancing from face to face. "Look out for each other." 

He carries a short-barreled Tyson 33 Flechette, a wicked black metal weapon that when fired can tear a hole through a stone wall a foot thick. Logan has seen it fired only once, years ago, when his father was testing it. The sound of its discharge was deafening. There was a burning smell in his nose and a ringing in his ears afterward. The memory stays with him to this day. He is afraid of the weapon. If his father carries it, things are as bad as they can possibly be. 

"Jack." His mother speaks his father's name softly, and she turns and takes him in her arms, burying her face in his shoulder. The shouts and screams and firing are right outside their door. 

His father lets her hold him for a moment, then eases her away, reaches down, and flings back the trapdoor. "Go!" he snaps, motioning them in. 

Tyler doesn't hesitate; carrying the second of the two flashlights, he goes down through the opening. Megan follows him, her green eyes huge and damp with tears. 

"Logan," his father calls when he sees his youngest hesitate. 

In the next instant the front door blows apart in a fiery explosion that engulfs both his mother and his father and sends him tumbling head-over-heels down the stairway to land in a twisted heap on top of his sister. She screams, and something heavy falls on the dirt floor next to him, barely missing his head. In the waver of Tyler's flashlight he looks down and sees the Tyson Flechette. He stares at it until his brother jerks him to his feet and snatches up the weapon himself. 

Their eyes meet and they both know. "Run!" Tyler grunts. 

Together the three children hurry down the long dark corridor, following the beam of the flashlight. In the darkness ahead, other flashlight beams and flickering candles appear out of other tunnels that join this one, and the sound of voices grows louder. He knows they all come from homes close to his own. The tunnel was the joint project of many families, spearheaded by his father and a few other men, a bolt-hole in case of the unspeakable. Quickly the tunnels are packed, and people are pushing and shoving. Tyler, fighting to keep Megan in tow with one hand while wielding his flashlight with the other, shouts his name and shoves the Tyson Flechette at him. 

Logan takes it without thinking. His hands close over the cool, smooth metal of the barrel and work down to the leather-bound grip. Curiously, the weapon feels right in his hands; it feels like it belongs there. His fear of it dissipates as he cradles it to his chest. 

Ahead, there is a convergence of lights, and a wooden stairway leads upward. People are pouring out of the tunnel and up the steps into a night filled with flashes and explosions and the sounds of death and dying. He can feel the heat of an intense fire as he gains the opening. As he breathes in the night air, he can smell the acrid stench of smoke and charred timbers. 

He has just paused to look around, not three steps back from Tyler and Megan, when an explosion rips the earth beneath him, flinging him backward into the night. An eerie silence descends over his immediate surroundings. Everything he hears now is distant and strangely muffled. He cannot see at first, cannot even move, lying on the ground clutching the flechette as if it were a lifeline. 

He rises with difficulty, dazed and in shock. He sees bodies strewn everywhere on the ground in front of him, all around the tunnel opening, dozens and dozens of crumpled forms. He climbs to his feet and staggers over to where Tyler and Megan lie still and bleeding, their eyes wide and staring. He feels his chest tighten and his strength drain away. They are gone. His whole family is gone. It happened so fast. 

Sudden movement catches his eye as a knot of dark forms converges on him from out of the darkness. Once-men, wild-eyed and feral, their faces the faces of animals. Without thinking, without even knowing how he remembers what to do, he snaps off the safety on the Tyson Flechette, whips up the barrel, and fires into their midst. Dozens of them disappear, blown backward into the night. He swings the barrel to the right and fires again. Dozens more fly apart. He is exhilarated, become as maddened as they are, as consumed by bloodlust. He hates them for what they have done. He wants to destroy them all. 

Then he sees another figure, an old man standing off to one side, tall and stooped and ghost-gray in a cloak that hangs almost to the ground. His eyes are fixed on Logan, peering out from beneath a slouch-brimmed hat, and in those eyes is a cold approval that terrifies the boy. He does not understand what it is the old man approves of, but he does understand one thing. Without ever having come face-to-face with one before, he knows instinctively that this is a demon. 

The demon smiles at him and nods. 

A hand jerks him about sharply and whips the flechette out of his hands. Eyes as hard and black as obsidian stare out of a face streaked with grease and sweat. "Good enough, boy, but it's time to leave now. Let's live to fight another day!" 

He takes Logan's arm and begins to run with him into the darkness. Others with faces painted in the same way join with him, shepherding the strays they have gathered from the ruins of the compound. A rear guard forms up to protect their retreat, weapons firing into the waves of once-men that seek to reach them. 

"Run, boy." The man who holds him shoves him away. 

Fighting down the pain he feels in his gut, struggling to hold back his tears, he does. He does not look back.

The midmorning sunlight blinded Logan Tom when he opened his eyes, and he blinked hard to clear away the sleep as he peered out through the windshield of the Lightning S-150 AV. The Indiana countryside, empty of life, spread away to either side of the little copse of elms he had pulled into the night before. The highway he had followed west toward Chicago stretched back the way he had come and ahead the way he must go, cracked and weed-grown and littered with debris. His gaze shifted. Fields fallow and dried out from weeks without rain formed a broken brown patchwork to the south. North, about half a mile off, a farmhouse and barn sat abandoned and derelict in a small grove of oaks turned wintry and leached of life. 

On the four horizons, nothing moved. Not even feeders, and feeders were everywhere there were humans to consume.

</file>

<file= AmE06_M03>

Chapter Three
The Shadow Across The Water

"No...no..." 

Jack sat up abruptly. The wind was howling outside. The house held the deep chill that seeped into it before dawn. 

"No...I won't do it...it's evil..." 

Jack threw back the covers and stumbled to the other end of the house. The Bard's bed was shaking. He saw the old man thrust up his hand as though warding something off. "Sir! Sir! Wake up! Everything's all right." He caught the Bard's hand. 

"You won't bend me to your will! I defy you, foul troll!" 

Something -- some terrible force -- flung the boy back. His head banged against the stone, and his ears rang as though a blacksmith were pounding on an anvil. He tasted blood. 

"Oh, my stars, child! I didn't know it was you." 

Jack tried to speak, choked on blood, and coughed instead. 

"You're alive, thank Freya! Stay here. I'll build up the fire and make you a healing drink." 

The ringing in Jack's ears died down, but he felt violently sick to his stomach. He heard the Bard move around, and presently, the hearth burst into light. In a very short time he was handed a cup of hot liquid. It hurt his mouth and he recoiled. 

"You bit through your lip, child. It isn't as bad as it looks. The drink will make it better." 

Jack managed to swallow, and the sickness went away. He found himself trembling. Perhaps he'd been trembling all along. He couldn't remember. "Is that -- is that how -- you destroy your enemies?" he stammered. 

The Bard sat back. "One of the ways," he said. 

"So that was...magic." 

"Some call it so," said the Bard. 

"Will you teach me how to do it?" 

"By Thor's bushy beard! I almost killed you, and the first thing you want to know is how to do it." 

"W-Well, sir, I am your a-apprentice." 

"And a right cheeky one too. Most boys would have run home to their mothers after what you just experienced. Still, curiosity is a great thing. We two might just get along." 

Jack felt a kind of warm sleepiness pass over him. The pain was still there, but it seemed unimportant. "What happened to you, sir?" 

"That was a Nightmare, lad. Pray you never meet one." 

"You mean, a bad dream?" 

"I mean a Nightmare. It's far worse." 

Jack wanted to ask more, but he was too comfortable. He yawned broadly, stretched out on the floor, and fell asleep. 

When he awoke, he was lying outside on a bed of heather. He struggled to get up. "Rest a while, lad," said the Bard. He was sitting on a stool next to the door. His white beard and cloak shone against the weathered house. "Ah, sunlight," the old man said with a contented sigh. "It heals the terrors of the night." 

"The Nightmare?" Jack said. His mouth hurt, and his speech was oddly slurred. 

"Among other things," said the Bard. Jack felt his lip and found, to his horror, that it was as swollen as a mushroom after rain. "You wouldn't make a bad-looking troll at the moment," the old man remarked. 

Jack remembered the words the Bard had cried out in his sleep. "Have you truly seen one, sir?" 

"Oh, yes. Dozens. Most are quite pleasant, although they take getting used to. The ones you have to watch out for are the half-trolls. There's no describing how nasty they can be. Or deceitful. They're shape-shifters, and when they appear human, they're so beautiful that you can't think of a single sensible thing around them." 

"Did one of them send the Nightmare?" said Jack. 

"One of them rode it. Look, my boy, I was trying to protect you from certain things until you were older. But I may not have the time. Lately, I've felt a darkness over the sea. She's searching for me, you see. I can hide from her in the daytime. At night my guard is down, and she knows it." 

"You could move in with the chief, sir. He could protect you," said Jack. He was beginning to get alarmed. This wasn't a saga or an amusing song. This was real. 

The old man shook his head. "Your chief is a brave man, but he isn't up to handling trolls. She is hunting for me, and if she has found out where I am, her servants may already be on the way. I've been careless. I should have remembered that nowhere in the nine worlds is safe for me as long as she is abroad. I may even have to let her take me. Better that than let her destroy your village." 

"But can't you flee?" 

"Jotuns follow a trail like a hound. Her servants will come here first. If they don't find me, they'll kill all of you." 

"Jotuns?" Jack said faintly. 

"It's what the trolls call themselves. They can creep inside your mind and know what you're thinking. They know when and where you're going to strike before you do it. Only a very special kind of warrior can overcome them." 

"We have to do something." Jack knew his voice sounded shrill, but he couldn't help it. 

"We will," the Bard said firmly. "I'm on the alert now. I won't let her catch me off guard again. I should have been teaching you all these weeks, but the peacefulness of this place lulled me...." 

The Bard fell silent, and Jack saw him looking out to sea. He looked too, but he saw only cloudless sky and gray-green waves bending toward shore. If there was darkness out there, he couldn't see it. 

"You can go home for the next three days," said the Bard. "I'll be walking in the forest. Oh, and I wouldn't mention any of this to your family." He reached for his black staff. "We don't want to alarm them until it's necessary. Jotuns can follow a trail of fear as easily as foxes sniff out a henhouse." 

  

"I spend half my time chasing those scurvy boys," said Father, slurping a bowl of Mother's rich cockle soup. Jack had provided the cockles from sea cliffs near the Bard's house. "They slide away like eels when there's real work to be done." 

"Oh, aye. They're a useless lot," agreed Mother. She steadied Lucy's hands on her mug. 

Jack didn't think the farm was suffering. The fences looked sturdy; the field was covered with oats and barley. Mustard, lavender, and coriander bloomed in the kitchen garden, and the apple trees were covered with tiny green fruit. 

It was so beautiful, it made his throat ache. He'd never appreciated the little farm until now. And he saw his father in a new light. He realized that Giles Crookleg's complaints meant no more than the muttering of crows in a tree. It was a habit crows fell into when things weren't going their way. Father, too, grumbled by way of easing the disappointments in his life. What mattered was how Father went on in spite of his unhappiness, to create this beautiful place. Jack saw how lovingly the house was made, how carefully provisions were laid up so that Mother, Lucy, and himself could survive. 

It could all be swept away in an instant. No one had any idea of the menace lurking over the sea. 

"Jack's crying," said Lucy. 

"I am not," Jack said indignantly. He turned his head away to hide the tears that had wandered down his cheek. He'd felt oddly shaken since the Bard had thrown him down. He seemed to cry more easily. 

"Leave him alone, dearest," came Mother's soft voice. "His mouth is very sore." 

"The Bard thrashed him," said Father. 

"It was an accident," Jack said. 

"Oh, aye. You may tell us that, but I know a thrashing when I see one." 

Jack didn't say anything. If it pleased Father to think he'd been punished, why spoil things? And this, too, was new. Before, Jack would have argued passionately. Now he saw the lines of pain in his father's face, his hunched shoulders and scarred hands. The boy had a glimmer of another image, of his father as a child before the accident. 

Jack felt like crying again. These new feelings were very odd and worrying. 

Mother bent over Lucy's fair head. "You must finish your soup," she whispered. 

"I don't like the bottom part. It's sandy," said Lucy. 

"Washing cockles takes away the taste," said Mother, but she finished the dregs herself and gave Lucy an oatcake. 

"Thrashing is good for boys," Giles Crookleg said. "Why, I was smacked six ways to Sunday by my father, and it made me the man I am today." 

Then, because it was Sunday, Father told them a story about the holy saints. Father couldn't read, nor could anyone in the village except the Bard. To Giles Crookleg, writing was a kind of magic. When the Bard marked letters on a scrap of parchment, Father always crossed himself to avert a spell. 

But he had memorized dozens of stories from the monks of the Holy Isle. Tonight's tale was of Saint Lawrence, martyred by pagans. "He was roasted over a slow fire," said Father to Lucy's horrified gasp. "They stuck garlic cloves between his toes and basted him all over like a chicken. When he was about to die and be taken into Heaven, Saint Lawrence said, 'I think I'm done. You may eat me when you will.' The pagans were so impressed, they fell on their knees and begged to become Christians." 

Trolls eat people, thought Jack. They would come over the sea and stick garlic cloves between everyone's toes. He put his head down and thought about green hills and puffy clouds instead. He must not be afraid. Jotuns followed fear like a trail. 

Later Lucy wanted to hear her own story of how she had lived in a palace. 

"This will come to grief," said Mother. "She can't tell the difference between fact and fancy." 

Father ignored her. Jack knew he looked forward to the tales as much as Lucy did. The boy understood -- how had he changed so much in a few weeks? -- that these, too, were a comfort to his father. Giles Crookleg might grumble like a crow, but he lost himself like a bird in the clouds of his own imaginings. He no longer had to set foot on the earth or know that he was doomed to creep upon it. 

"Once upon a time," said Father, "the queen dropped a honey cake on the ground." 

"My other mother," prompted Lucy. 

Mother sniffed. She had long since stopped explaining that Lucy couldn't have two sets of parents.

"It put down roots and grew," said Father. 

"Until it was as tall as the oak by the blacksmith's shed," Lucy said. 

"Every branch was covered with honey cakes. Invisible servants flew through the air to fetch them." 

"Invisible servants! I'd like that," said Mother. 

"You had a little dog with a green collar with silver bells sewn on it. You could hear it running through the house." 

"Castle," Lucy corrected. 

"Yes, of course. Castle. And it could talk. It told you everything that went on in the kingdom, but alas, it was very naughty. The dog ran away, and the nurse ran after it." 

"With me in her arms," said Lucy. 

"Yes. She got lost in the woods. She sat down to weep and tear her hair." 

"She laid me under a rosebush first," said Lucy. 

"A bear came out of the woods and gobbled her up, but he didn't find you, dearest." 

"And that was how I got lost," crowed Lucy, not at all concerned about the fate of the nurse. 

Jack fell asleep listening to the north wind fussing with the thatch over his head.

</file>

<file= AmE06_M04>

Don't call me a fairy. We don't like to be called fairies anymore. Once upon a time, fairy was a perfectly acceptable catchall for a variety of creatures, but now it has taken on too many associations. Etymologically speaking, a fairy is something quite particular, related in kind to the naiads, or water nymphs, and while of the genus, we are sui generis. The word fairy is drawn fromfay (Old French fee), which itself comes from the Latin Fata, the goddess of fate. The fay lived in groups called the faerie, between the heavenly and earthly realms.

There exist in this world a range of sublunary spirits that carminibus coelo possunt deducere lunam, and they have been divided since ancient times into six kinds: fiery, aerial, terrestrial, watery, subterranean, and the whole class of fairies and nymphs. Of the sprites of fire, water, and air, I know next to nothing. But the terrestrial and underground devils I know all too well, and of these, there is infinite variety and attendant myth about their behavior, custom, and culture. Known around the world by many different names--Lares, genii, fauns, satyrs, foliots, Robin Goodfellows, pucks, leprechauns, pukas, sídhe, trolls--the few that remain live hidden in the woods and are rarely seen or encountered by human beings. If you must give me a name, call me hobgoblin.

Or better yet, I am a changeling--a word that describes within its own name what we are bound and intended to do. We kidnap a human child and replace him or her with one of our own. The hobgoblin becomes the child, and the child becomes a hobgoblin. Not any boy or girl will do, but only those rare souls baffled by their young lives or attuned to the weeping troubles of this world. The changelings select carefully, for such opportunities might come along only once a decade or so. A child who becomes part of our society might have to wait a century before his turn in the cycle arrives, when he can become a changeling and reenter the human world.

Preparation is tedious, involving close surveillance of the child, and of his friends and family. This must be done unobserved, of course, and it's best to select the child before he begins school, because it becomes more complicated by then, having to memorize and process a great deal of information beyond the intimate family, and being able to mimic his personality and history as clearly as mirroring his physique and features. Infants are the easiest, but caring for them is a problem for the changelings. Age six or seven is best. Anyone much older is bound to have a more highly developed sense of self. No matter how old or young, the object is to deceive the parents into thinking that this changeling is actually their child. More easily done than most people imagine.

No, the difficulty lies not in assuming a child's history but in the painful physical act of the change itself. First, start with the bones and skin, stretching until one shudders and nearly snaps into the right size and body shape. Then the others begin work on one's new head and face, which require the skills of a sculptor. There's considerable pushing and pulling at the cartilage, as if the skull were a soft wad of clay or taffy, and then the malicious business with the teeth, the removal of the hair, and the tedious -re--weaving. The entire process occurs without a gram of painkiller, although a few imbibe a noxious alcohol made from the fermented mash of acorns. A nasty undertaking, but well worth it, although I could do without the rather complicated rearrangement of the genitals. In the end, one is an exact copy of a child. Thirty years ago, in 1949, I was a changeling who became a human again.

I changed lives with Henry Day, a boy born on a farm outside of town. On a late summer's afternoon, when he was seven, Henry ran away from home and hid in a hollow chestnut tree. Our changeling spies followed him and raised the alarm, and I transformed myself into his perfect facsimile. We grabbed him, and I slipped into the hollowed space to switch my life for his. When the search party found me that night, they were happy, relieved, and proud-not angry, as I had expected. "Henry," a -red--haired man in a fireman's suit said to me as I pretended to sleep in the hiding place. I opened my eyes and gave him a bright smile. The man wrapped me in a thin blanket and carried me out of the woods to a paved road, where a fire truck stood waiting, its red light pulsing like a heartbeat. The firemen took me home to Henry's parents, to my new father and mother. As we drove along the road that night, I kept thinking that if that first test could be passed, the world would once again be mine.

It is a commonly held myth that, among the birds and the beasts, the mother recognizes her young as her own and will refuse a stranger thrust into the den or the nest. This is not so. In fact, the cuckoo commonly lays its eggs in other birds' nests, and despite its extraordinary size and voracious appetite, the cuckoo chick receives as much, indeed more, maternal care, often to the point of driving the other chicks from their lofty home. Sometimes the mother bird starves her own offspring because of the cuckoo's incessant demands. My first task was to create the fiction that I was the real Henry Day. Unfortunately, humans are more suspicious and less tolerant of intruders in the nest.

The rescuers knew only that they were looking for a young boy lost in the woods, and I could remain mute. After all, they had found someone and were therefore content. As the fire truck lurched up the driveway to the Days' home, I vomited against the bright red door, a vivid mess of acorn mash, watercress, and the exoskeletons of a number of small insects. The fireman patted me on the head and scooped me up, blanket and all, as if I were of no more consequence than a rescued kitten or an abandoned baby. Henry's father leapt from the porch to gather me in his arms, and with a strong embrace and warm kisses reeking of smoke and alcohol, he welcomed me home as his only son. The mother would be much harder to fool.

Her face betrayed her every emotion: blotchy skin, chapped with salty tears, her pale blue eyes rimmed in red, her hair matted and disheveled. She reached out for me with trembling hands and emitted a small sharp cry, the kind a rabbit makes when in the distress of the snare. She wiped her eyes on her shirtsleeve and wrapped me in the wracking shudder of a woman in love. Then she began laughing in that deep coloratura.

"Henry? Henry?" She pushed me away and held on to my shoulders at arm's length. "Let me look at you. Is it really you?"

"I'm sorry, Mom."

She brushed away the bangs hiding my eyes and then pulled me against her breast. Her heart beat against the side of my face, and I felt hot and uncomfortable.

"You needn't worry, my little treasure. You're home and safe and sound, and that's all that matters. You've come back to me."

Dad cupped the back of my head with his large hand, and I thought this homecoming tableau might go on forever. I squirmed free and dug out the handkerchief from Henry's pocket, crumbs spilling to the floor.

"I'm sorry I stole the biscuit, Mom."

She laughed, and a shadow passed behind her eyes. Maybe she had been wondering up to that point if I was indeed her flesh and blood, but mentioning the biscuit did the trick. Henry had stolen one from the table when he ran away from home, and while the others took him to the river, I stole and pocketed it. The crumbs proved that I was hers.
Well after midnight, they put me to bed, and such a comfort may be the greatest invention of mankind. In any case, it tops sleeping in a hole in the cold ground, a moldy rabbit skin for your pillow, and the grunts and sighs of a dozen changelings anxious in their dreams. I stretched out like a stick between the crisp sheets and pondered my good fortune. Many tales exist of failed changelings who are uncovered by their presumptive families. One child who showed up in a Nova Scotia fishing village so frightened his poor parents that they fled their own home in the middle of a snowstorm and were later found frozen and bobbing in the frigid harbor. A changeling girl, age six, so shocked her new parents when she opened her mouth to speak that, thus frightened, they poured hot wax into each other's ears and never heard another sound. Other parents, upon learning that their child had been replaced by changelings, had their hair turn white overnight, were stunned into catatonia, heart attacks, or sudden death. Worse yet, though rare, other families drive out the creature through exorcism, banishment, abandonment, murder. Seventy years ago, I lost a good friend after he forgot to make himself look older as he aged. Convinced he was a devil, his parents tied him up like an unwanted kitten in a gunnysack and threw him down a well. Most of the time, though, the parents are confounded by the sudden change of their son or daughter, or one spouse blames the other for their queer fortune. It is a risky endeavor and not for the fainthearted.

That I had come this far undetected caused me no small satisfaction, but I was not completely at ease. A half hour after I had gone to bed, the door to my room swung open slowly. Framed against the hallway light, Mr. and Mrs. Day stuck their heads through the opening. I shut my eyes to mere slits and pretended to be sleeping. Softly, but persistently, she was sobbing. None could cry with such dexterity as Ruth Day. "We have to mend our ways, Billy. You have to make sure this never happens again."

"I know, I promise," he whispered. "Look at him sleeping, though. 'The innocent sleep that knits up the ravell'd sleeve of care.'"

He pulled shut the door and left me in the darkness. My fellow changelings and I had been spying on the boy for months, so I knew the contours of my new home at the edge of the forest. Henry's view of their few acres and the world beyond was magical. Outside, the stars shone through the window above a jagged row of firs. Through the open windows, a breeze blew across the top of the sheets, and moths beat their wings in retreat from their perches on the window screen. The nearly full moon reflected enough light into the space to reveal the dim pattern on the wallpaper, the crucifix above my head, pages torn from magazines and newspapers tacked along the wall. A baseball mitt and ball rested on top of the bureau, and on the washstand a pitcher and bowl glowed as white as phosphorous. A short stack of books lay propped against the bowl, and I could barely contain my excitement at the prospect of reading come morning.

The twins began bawling at the break of day. I padded down the hallway, past my new parents' room, following the sound. The babies hushed the moment they saw me, and I am sure that had they the gifts of reason and speech, Mary and Elizabeth would have said "You're not Henry" the moment I walked into the room. But they were mere tots, with more teeth than sentences, and could not articulate the mysteries of their young minds.

</file>

<file= AmE06_M05>

The solid thud of David's car door shutting echoed off the stone face of the eight-story building we had parked beside.  Leaning atop of the roof of the gray sports car, I shaded my eyes and squinted up its aged and architecturally beautiful columns and fluted sills.  The uppermost floor was golden in the setting sun, but here at street level, we were in a chill shadow.  Cincinnati had a handful of such landmark buildings, most abandoned as this one appeared to be.

"Are you sure this is the place?" I questioned, then dragged the flat of my arms off the roof of his car.  The river was close; I could smell the oil and gas mix of boats.  The top floor probably had a view.  Though the streets were clean, the area was clearly depressed.  But with a little attention - and a lot of money - this could be one of the city's newest residential hot spots.

David set his worn leather briefcase down and reached into the inner pocket of his suit coat.  Pulling out a sheaf of papers, he flipped to the back, then glanced to the distant corner and the street sign.  "Yes," he said, his soft voice carrying tension, but not worry.

Tugging my little red leather jacket down, I hiked my bag higher on my shoulder and headed to his side of the car, heels clunking.  I'd like to say I was wearing my butt-kicking boots in deference to this being a run, but the reality was I just liked them.  They went well with the blue jeans and black T-shirt I had on, and with the matching cap, I looked and felt sassy.

David frowned at the noise - or my choice of attire, maybe - steeling his features to a bland acceptance when he saw me quietly laughing at him.  He was in his respectable work clothes, somehow pulling off the mix of the three-piece suit and his shoulder-length, wavy black hair held back in a subdued clip.  I'd seen him a couple of times in running tights showing off his excellently maintained, mid-thirty's physique - yum - and a full-length duster and cowboy hat - Van Helsing eat your heart out - but his somewhat small stature lost none of its presence when he dressed like the insurance claim adjuster he was.  David was kind of complex for a Were.

I hesitated when I came even with him, and together we eyed the building.  Three streets over I could hear the shush of traffic, but here nothing moved.  "It's really quiet," I said, holding my elbows against the chill of the mid May evening.

Brown eyes pinched, David ran a hand over his clean-shaven cheeks.  "It's the right address, Rachel," he said, peering at the top floor.  "I can call to check if you want."

"No, this is cool."  I smiled with my lips closed, hefting my shoulder bag and feeling the extra weight of my splat gun.  This was David's run, not mine, and about as benign as you could get - adjusting the claim of an earth witch whose wall had cracked.  I wouldn't need the sleepy-time charms I loaded my modified paint ball gun with, but I had just grabbed my bag and went when David had asked me to come with him.  It had still been packed from my last run - storming the back room of an illegal spammer.  God, plugging him had been satisfying.

David pushed into motion, gallantly gesturing for me to go first.  He was older than I by about ten years, but it was hard to tell unless you looked at his eyes.  "She's probably living in one of those new flats they're making above old warehouses," he said, heading for the ornate stoop.

I snickered, and David looked at me.  "What?" he said, dark eyebrows rising.

I entered the building before him, shoving the door so he could follow tight on my heels.  "I was thinking if you lived in one, it would still be a warehouse.  Were house?  Get it?"

A sigh shifted him, and I frowned.  Jenks, my old backup, would have laughed.  Guilt hit me, and my pace faltered.  Jenks was currently AWOL, hiding out in some Were's basement, but with spring here, I could step up my efforts to apologize and get him to return.

The front lobby was spacious, full of graying marble and little else.  My heels sounded loud in the tall-ceilinged space, and creeped out, I started walking to minimize my noise.  A pair of black-edged elevators made an obvious showing, and we headed for them.  David pushed the up button, and rocked back.

I eyed him, the corners of my lips quirking.  Though he was trying to hide it, he was starting to get excited about his run.  Being a field insurance adjustor wasn't the desk job one might think it was.  Most of his company's clients were Inderlanders - witches, Weres, and the occasional vamp - and as such, getting the truth as to why a client's car was totaled was harder than it sounded.  Was it from the teenage son backing it into the garage wall, or did the witch down the street finally get tired of him beeping every time he left the drive?  One was covered, the other wasn't, and sometimes it took, ah, creative interviewing techniques to get the truth.

David noticed I was smiling at him, and the rims of his ears went red under his dark complexion.  "I appreciate you coming with me," he said, shifting forward as the elevator dinged and the doors opened.  "I owe you dinner, okay?"

"No problem."  I joined him in the murky, mirrored lift, and I watched my reflection in the amber light as the doors closed.  I had needed to move an interview for a possible client, but David had helped me in the past, and that was far more important.

The trim Were winced.  "The last time I adjusted the claim of an earth witch, I later found out she had scammed the company.  My ignorance cost them hundreds of thousands.  I appreciate you giving me your opinion as to if she caused the damage with a misuse of magic."

I tucked a loosely curling lock of red hair that had escaped my French braid behind an ear, then adjusted my leather cap.  The lift was old and slow.  "Like I said.  No problem."

David watched the numbers counting up.  "I think my boss is trying to get me fired," he said softly.  "This is the third claim this week to hit my desk that I'm not familiar with."  His grip on his briefcase shifted.  "He's waiting for me to make a mistake.  Pushing for it."

I leaned against the back mirror and smiled weakly at him.  "Sorry.  I know how that feels."  I had quit my old job at Inderland Security, the I.S. almost a year ago to go independent.  Though it had been rough - and still was, occasionally - it was the best decision I'd ever made.

"Still," he persisted, the not-unpleasant scent of musk growing as he turned to me in the confined space, "This isn't your job.  I owe you."

"David, let it go," I said, exasperated.  "I'm happy to come out here and make sure some witch isn't scamming you.  It's no big deal.  I do this stuff every day.  In the dark.  Usually alone.  And if I'm lucky, it involves running, and screaming, and my foot in somebody's gut."

The Were smiled to show his flat, blocky teeth.  "You like your job, don't you."

I smiled right back.  "You bet I do."

The floor lurched, and the doors opened.  David waited for me to get out first, and I looked out onto the huge, building-sized room on the top floor.  The setting sun streamed in the ceiling-to-floor windows to shine on the scattered building materials.  Past the windows, the Ohio River made a gray sheen.  When finished, this would be a most excellent apartment.  My nose tickled at the scent of two-by-fours and sanded plaster, and I sneezed.

David's eyes went everywhere.  "Hello? Mrs. Bryant?" he said, his deep voice echoing.  "I'm David.  David Hue from Were Insurance.  I brought an assistant with me."  He gave my tight jeans, T-shirt, and red leather jacket a disparaging look.  "Mrs. Bryant?"

I followed him farther in, my nose wrinkling.  "I think the crack in her wall might be from removing some of those supporting members," I said softly.  "Like I said.  No problem."

"Mrs. Bryant?" David called again.

My thoughts went to the empty street and how far we were from the casual observer.  Behind me, the elevator doors slid shut and the lift descended.  A small scuff from the far end of the room sent a stab of adrenaline through me, and I spun.

David, too, was on edge, and together we laughed at ourselves when a slight figure rose from the couch set adjacent to a modern kitchen, the cupboards still wrapped in plastic.

"Mrs. Bryant?" David questioned.  "I'm David Hue."

"As prompt as your last yearly review claim," a masculine voice said, the soft resonances sifting thorough the darkening air.  "And very thoughtful to bring a witch with you to check your customer's claim with.  Tell me, do you take that off your end of the year taxes, or do you claim it as a business expense?"

David's eyes were wide.  "It's a business expense, sir."

I looked from David to the man standing at the end of the long room.  "Ah, David?  I take it that's not Mrs. Bryant."

His grip on his briefcase shifting, David shook his head.  "I think it's the president of the company."

"Oh."  I thought about that.  Then thought about that some more.  I was getting a bad feeling about this.  "David?" I questioned, and he put a hand on my shoulder and leaned in.

"I think you should leave," he said, the worry in his brown eyes running right to my core.

My thoughts returned to what he had said in the elevator about his boss gunning for him, and my pulse quickened.  "David, if you're in trouble, I'm not leaving," I said, boots thumping as he hustled me to the lift.

The small man's face was grim.  "I can handle this."

I tried to twist from his grip.  "Then I'll stay and help you to the car when it's over."

He glanced at me.  "I don't think so, Rachel.  But thanks."

The elevator opened.  Still protesting, I was ill prepared when David jerked me back.  My head came up, and my face went cold.  Crap.  The lift was full of Weres in various levels of elegance ranging from Armani suits and sophisticated skirt and top combos to jeans and blouses.  Even worse, they all had the collected, confident pride of alphas.  And they were smiling.

Shit.  David had a big problem.

"Please tell me it's your birthday," I said, "and this is a surprise party."

A young Were in a bright red dress was the last to step from the elevator.  Tossing her thick length of black hair, she gave me a once-over.  Though sure of herself, I could tell by her stance that she wasn't an alpha.  This was getting weird.  Alphas never got together.  They just didn't.  Especially without their packs behind them.

"It's not his birthday," the woman said cattily.  "But I imagine he's surprised."

David's grip on my arm twitched.  "Hello, Karen," he said caustically.

My skin crawled as the Weres ringed us, and I felt my muscles tighten.  I thought of the splat gun in my bag, then felt for a ley line, but didn't tap it.  David couldn't pay me to leave, now.  This looked like a lynching.

"Hi, David," the woman in red said, satisfaction clear in her stance behind the alphas.  "You can't imagine how overjoyed I was to find you had started a pack."

His steps quick and confident, David's boss settled in between us and the elevator. The tension in the room ratcheted up a notch, and Karen slinked to stand behind him.

</file>

<file= AmE06_M06>

"No," he said. "She didn't." She considered the awful slope for a moment and shuddered. "I'm not going down there, Will." He continued peering down the dirt track. "I know," he said.
The calm with which he said it was like a slap in the face. She stared at him, speechless, until he finally met her gaze. "I'll come back for you." He gave her the goofy, apologetic grin he always summoned up when he upset her. "I'll make sure the path is safe and I'll make all kinds of friends down at the bottom and when the time is right, I'll be back."
"But what about your book?" He blew a dismissive breath between his lips. "I'm all set with that." "It's finished?"
"It's crap, Rain." His voice was flat. "I'm not wasting any more time writing about some stupid made- up president. There are no more presidents. And how can anyone write the Great American novel when there is no more America?" He caught his breath. "Sorry," he said. "I know that's what you wanted me to do." He gave her a sour smile. "You're welcome to read it if you want. Or hand it over to the dogs. That should be good for a laugh." Then he pulled her into his arms and kissed her.
Of course Rain kissed him back. She wanted to drag him down on top of her and rip his clothes off, although there really wasn't enough room here to make love. She would even have let him take her on the picnic table, tie her to the damn table, if that's what he had wanted. But his wasn't the kind of kiss that started anything.
"So I'm coming back, I promise," he murmured into her ear. "Just tell everyone that you're waiting for me."
"Wait a minute." She twisted away from him. "You're going now? It's almost dark. We just ate cookie dust." She couldn't believe he was serious. This was such a typical boneheaded-Will-stunt he was pulling. "Come home, honey," she said. "Get some sleep. Things might look different in the morning."
He stroked her hair. "I've got at least another hour of light," he said. "Believe me, I've thought about this a long time, Rain." Then he brushed his finger against her lips. "I love you."
He took a step over the edge and another. He had gone about a dozen meters before his feet went out from beneath him and he fell backwards, skidding on his rear end and clutching at the scrub. But he caught himself almost immediately and looked up at her, his face pale as the moon. "Oops!" he called cheerfully.
Rain stood at the edge of the cliff long after she could no longer see him. She was hoping that he'd come to a dead end and have to turn back. The sun was painting the horizon with fire by the time she fetched Will's binders to the edge of Nowhere. She opened one after another and shook the pages free. They fluttered into the twilight like an exaltation of larks. A few landed briefly on the path before launching themselves again into the breeze and following their creator out of her life. When all the pages had disappeared, Rain took the whistle that the dogs had given her and hurled it as far into the mondrian as she could.
Only then did she let herself cry. She thought she deserved it. *** *
Rain found her way through the gathering darkness back to the apartment over Vronsky's Laundromat and Monkeyfilter Bowladrome. She put some Szechwan lasagna into the microwave and pushed it around her plate for a while, but she was too numb to be hungry. She would have gone to the eight o'clock show at the Ziegfowl just to get out, but she was mortally tired of The Wizard of Oz, no matter whom the cognisphere recast in it. The apartment depressed her. The problem, she decided, was that she was surrounded by Will's stuff; she'd have to move it somewhere out of sight.
She placed a short stack of college-lined, loose-leaf paper and four unopened reams in a box next to The Awakening, The Big Snooze, and Drinking the Snow. Will had borrowed the novels from the Very Memorial Library but had made way too many marginal notes in them for her to return them to the stacks. Rain would have to order new ones from Chance in the Barrow. She threw his Buffalo Soldiers warmup jacket on top of several dusty pairs of Adidas Kloud Nine running shoes. Will's dresser drawers produced eight pairs of white socks, two black, a half dozen gray jockey shorts, three pairs of jeans, and a stack of tee shirts sporting pix of Panafrican shoutcast bands. At the bottom of the sock drawer, Rain discovered flash editions of Superheterodyne Adventure Stories 2020-26 and The Complete Idiot's Guide to Fetish. She pulled his mustard collection and climkies and homebrew off thekitchen shelves.
And that was all it took to put Will out of her life. She shouldn't have been surprised. After all, they had only lived together for just over a year.
She was trying to talk herself into throwing the lot of it out the next morning when the doorglass blinked. She glanced at the clock. Who did she know that would come visiting at 10:30 at night? When she opened the door, Baskerville, Rover and Spot looked up at her.
"You found the book?" The bloodhound's bowtie was crooked.
Beneath her, Rain could hear the rumble and clatter of the bowling lanes. "There is no book."
"May we come in?"
"No."
"You threw the whistle off the edge," said Baskerville.
As if on signal, the two terriers sat. They looked to Rain as if they were settling in for a stay. "Where's Will?" said Rover.
She wanted to kick the door shut hard enough to knock their bowler hats off, but the terrier's question took her breath away. If the cognisphere had lost track of Will, then maybe he wasn't ... maybe he was ... "I hate dogs," she said. "Maybe I forgot to mention that?"
Baskerville regarded her with his solemn chocolate eyes and said nothing. The terrier's hind leg scratched at his flank. "Has something happened to him?" he asked.
"Stop it!" Rain stomped her foot on the doorsill and all three dogs jumped. "You want a story and I want information. Deal?"
The dogs thought it over, then Rover got up and licked her hand.
"Okay, story." But at that moment, Rain's throat seemed to close, as if she had tried to swallow the page of a book. Will was gone. If she said it aloud, it would become just another story on the MemEx. But she had to know. "M-My boyfriend climbed over the edge a couple of hours ago trying to find a way down the cliff. I pitched the goddamn novel he was writing after him. The end."
"But what does this have to do with The Last President?" "That was the name of his book. Used to be. Once." She was out of breath. "Okay, you got story. Now
you owe me some god-damn truth. He's dead, right? You've absorbed him already."
Rover started to say, "I'm afraid that we have no knowledge of..." But she didn't give the dog a chance to finish; she slammed the door.
She decided then not to throw Will's things out. She dragged them all into the bedroom closet and covered the pile with the electric blanket. She made one more pass around the apartment to make sure she had everything. Then she decided to make a grocery list so she could stop at Cereno's on the way home from work tomorrow. That's when she discovered that she had nothing to write on. She gave herself permission to retrieve a couple of pages of Will's paper from the closetjust this once. As long as she was writing the list, she didn't have to think about Will on the cliff or the dogs in the hall. She cracked the apartment door just enough to see that all three of them were still there, heads on paws, asleep. Spot's ear twitched but he didn't wake up. She sat on the couch with the silence ringing in her ears until she got up and muscled the dresser over to block the closet where she had put Will's stuff. She thought about brushing her teeth and trying for sleep but she knew that would be a waste of time. She was browsing the books on her bookshelf, all of which she had long since read to tatters, when the
phone squawked.
Rain was sure it was the dogs calling, but decided to pick up just in case.
"Lorraine Carraway?"
Rain recognized Sheriff Renfield's drawl and was immediately annoyed. He was one of her best customersan avid Georgette Heyer fanand knew better than to call her by her proper name.
"Speaking, Beej. What's up?" "There's been some trouble down to the Laughing Cookie." He was slurring words. He pronounced
There is as Thersh. "Trouble?" "Fast Eddie said you had dogs in the store today. Dogs with hats." "What kind of trouble, Beej? Is Eddie all right?"
"He's fine, we're all just fine." Everybody knew that Beej Renfield was a drinker and nobody blamed him for it. Being sheriff was possibly the most boring job in Nowhere. "But there's been what you might call vandalism. Books all over the place, Rain, some of them ripped up good. Teeth marks. And the place stinks of piss. Must've happened, an hour, maybe two ago. Fast Eddie is ripping mad. I need you to come down here and lay some calm on him. Will you do that for me, Rain?"
"I'll do you one better, Beej. You're looking for these dogs?" His breath rasped in the receiver so loud she could almost smell it. "Because I've got them here if you're interested. Right outside my door." "I'm on my way." "Oh, and Beej? You might want to bring some help."
She sat at the kitchen table to wait. In front of her were the shopping list and the No. 2 pencil. They reminded her of Will. He was such a strong boy, everybody in town always said so. He had run that 4:21 mile, after all. And she was almost certain that Baskerville had looked surprised when she'd told him that Will was climbing down the cliff. What did surprise look like on a dog? She'd see for sure when Beej Renfield arrived.
For the very first time Rain allowed herself to consider the possibility that Will wasn't dead or absorbed. Maybe the cognisphere ended at the edge of Nowhere. In which case, he might actually come back for her.
But why would he bother? What had she ever done to deserve him? Her shopping list lay in front of her like an accusation. Was this all her life was about? Toilet paper and Seventy-Up and duck sausage? Will had climbed over the edge of Nowhere. What chance had she ever taken? She needed to do something, something no one had ever done before. She'd had enough of books and all the old stories about the world that the cognisphere was sorting on the MemEx. That world was gone, forever and ever, amen.
She picked up the pencil again.

I scowled at the dogs through the plate glass window of the Very Memorial Library. They squatted in a row next to my book drop. There were three of them, haughty in their bowler hats and silk vests. They acted like they owned the air. Bad dogs, I knew that for sure, created out of spit and tears and heartbreak by the spirits of all the uncountable dead and sent to spy on the survivors and cause at least
three different kinds of trouble. I wasn't worried. We'd seen their kind before.

</file>

