<file= AmE06_L01>

"I remember the beautiful hands of Doris and Nathan. Musicians' hands are long and slender. Doris said they exercised their fingers for fifteen minutes every day. Her fingers flew over the keys without seeming to touch them. And Jeremy used to marvel at Nathan's fingering of the violin strings. . . . I know you like music, Qwill. Would you like to borrow my collection of their piano and violin recordings? Polly has told me about your magnificent music system at the barn!"

She said, "My favorite is Chopin'sPolonaise Brillante! You'll both love it!"

"I'd be honored," he said.

Then he added, "Friday's 'Qwill Pen' will be a'Late Great' profile of the Ledfields. Is there anything I should know?"

"I can tell you one thing," she replied with fervor. "They always did more than they were asked to do, and gave more than they were asked to give. They supported every worthwhile program: school, church, library, athletic, and civic."

Qwilleran said, "Did you know some of their mounted animals were in thePickax Then parade?"

"Not only that, but his wildlife museum was open twice a year to schoolchildren who had the highest grades!" Maggie said.

"The Ledfields visited the barn once, paying three hundred dollars a ticket. It was a benefit for the local literacy program. I was not able to meet them due to an embarrassing incident with Koko that ended the evening early."

Maggie had to smile. "Doris told me it was the most fun they had had in years! Your cat stole the show."

"Koko disgraced himself, but the evening was a financial success for a good cause."

Maggie said, "Nathan called it the best fund-raiser he'd ever attended--and he'd gladly pay to see it again."

When Quilleran left he was carrying a leather case of recordings to play on the barn system. He stowed them in the trunk of his car.

Having declined Maggie's offer of "a nice cup of tea," he went instead to Lois's Luncheonette, where he could get a wicked cup of coffee and listen to the gossip. He called it "taking the public pulse."

He found the place in an uproar. Every chair at every table was filled. All the customers were talking at once--about the Ledfields--the murders . . . the family scandal--and the Ledfields' will. Especially the will! Who would inherit? How much? The possibility that the fortune might be going out of state. Everyone seemed to have a cousin or father-in-law whose wife knew the Ledfields' housekeeper or whose uncle was their window washer.

Qwilleran drank his coffee while standing at the cash register, then walked to the office of HBB&A, hoping Allen Barter would be at his desk. He was.

"What brings you out, Qwill?"

"I've been hearing strange rumors about the Ledfield bequests. Do I have to wait for tomorrow's newspaper?"

"Sit down and I'll fill you in. It's very simple. An old intermediate school will become the Ledfield Music Center, offering private lessons, classes, recitals, et cetera, all under the supervision of Uncle Louie MacLeod. . . . The Ledfield wildlife collection will be moved to a downtown site convenient for classes of schoolchildren. . . . The Old Manse will become a museum of art and antiques, with guided tours conducted by volunteers trained as guides, and with a respectable admission charge to discourage gawkers. Nathan envisioned it as an educational experience for visitors."

"Sounds good," Qwilleran said. "There are rumors that some of the fortune is going out of state."

"You've been hanging around the coffee shops, Qwill."

Next, Qwilleran left his car in the parking lot and walked to the newspaper. "Just touching base," he said to the managing editor.

"We'll be back to normal tomorrow," Junior said. "Will you have your usual 'Qwill Pen' for Friday?"

"I'll write a'Late Great' on the Ledfields."

"The terms of the will are scheduled to run tomorrow. It could be quite a sensation. The Ledfields go back to the nineteenth century, when mine owners made fortunes and there was no income tax. And they've had a century to invest it, so you know they were loaded. Whether they're leaving it to Moose County remains to be seen. . . . We're printing a large run tomorrow."

In the days that followed, Qwilleran's neighbors in the Village assumed he would stay there for the winter, since he had gone to the trouble of moving from the barn.

True, he had many friends there, and there were numerous activities in the clubhouse, but it could not compare with the barn for livability. The acoustics were magnificent, and he had a collection of the Ledfields' CDs waiting to be played. Altogether it was an odd situation. The barn made good country living in the city in the summer, and the condo made good city living in the country in winter.

Qwilleran pondered his options as he watched the cats gobble their dinner.

He asked, "Which shall it be, Koko? Stay here till spring . . . or move back to the barn now?"

Koko swallowed, made a few dental passes with his tongue and said "Yow-w-w" loud and clear!

And so, Qwilleran and the Siamese moved back to the barn--with its vast interior spaces, its balconies and ramps, its incredible acoustics.

Upon arrival, the cats first checked the bowls and plates (his and hers) under the kitchen table--then their private quarters on the third balcony. Yum Yum found her silver thimble. Koko remembered his new hobby: He dropped from a balcony railing, like a bombshell, into a cushiony sofa.

Pickax was glorying in its good fortune.

First, a former intermediate school was acquired for a music center, where young people could take piano or voice lessons from teachers commuting from Lockmaster. The high-school band could practice there without annoying the neighbors. Uncle Louis organized a choral club, and there was talk about staging a production ofThe Mikado.

Then an abandoned warehouse was adapted as a wildlife museum, and the Ledfields' mounted birds and beasts were exhibited in realistic settings created by the theatre club's set designer.

As for the Old Manse, it adapted well to a museum of art and antiques. Volunteers from the best families were trained as guides. There were fresh flowers in every room . . . the score of Chopin'sPolonaise Brillante was open on Doris's Steinway grand and on Nathan's music rack (his Stradivarius was locked up).

A preview of the mansion was being planned for those willing to pay five hundred dollars for a ticket. Guides would conduct them.

Then--six months after the demise of Doris and Nathan, the Ledfield estate dropped a bombshell!

After the doom and gloom of the hurricane, the accident at the Bloody Creek Bridge and--worst of all--the loss of the Ledfield family by unthinkable means . . . after all of this, Qwilleran and Polly were glad to be invited to the Rikers' condo for a Sunday afternoon repast.

"Less than a dinner," Mildred said, "but more than a lunch."

Qwilleran took Arch a bottle of something, and Polly took Mildred a silk chiffon scarf in a marbled pattern done by a local artist.

"The pattern is so unusual," Mildred cried. "And the silk is featherweight."

Polly said, "It's so weightless that I asked the druggist to put it on his pharmacy scale. He had to put a rubber band around it so it wouldn't float away. He said it weighed eleven and a half grams!"

Arch said, "If you roll it up it would fit in a shot glass!"

The first topic of discussion was the front-page story in Friday's paper: An anonymous donor had given the county-road commission a citizen's mandate to ensure the safety of the Bloody Creek Bridge according to the standard of the state engineers.

"Everyone," Arch said, "was wondering about the identity of the donor, but the release had come from a law agency, and secrecy was implied."

No conclusions were reached or even attempted. There was mumbled regret over the loss of Liz Hart . . . and consternation over the county's negligence.

Then the four survivors of the hurricane recalled their method of coping. Polly had phoned friends. Mildred had worked on the cookbook that's to be published. Everyone could guess how Arch had passed the time. As for Qwilleran, he always browsed throughBartlett's Familiar Quotations on a rainy day.

Now, to test the others, he asked, "Who is Gelett Burgess?"

In unison they responded, "I never saw a purple cow!"

"True! He had many talents but has been known for a century for a nonsensical poem. This past week I discovered a sequel to the original!"

He waited for their eager looks and then recited:

    Ah, yes, I wrote the "Purple Cow"--
    I'm sorry, now, I wrote it!
    But I can tell you, anyhow,
    I'll kill you if you quote it.

The others applauded.

Arch said he would rather be remembered for "The Purple Cow" than not remembered at all. And then Mildred said, "And we're all so proud to have the K Fund buying the Grist Mill! But who will replace Liz Hart? She was so charming!"

"Prepare for a surprise!" Qwilleran said. "A few years ago, when dining at the Boulder House Inn, did you occasionally meet a teenager? Her name was Jennifer."

They all remembered. She was very bright and personable. She was Silas Dingwall's daughter.

"Well, she has just completed a course in restaurant management at an eastern university. She and some fellow graduates have been traveling in France for gustatory experiences. She'll be perfect for the Grist Mill!"

"What a happy surprise!" Polly said.

Mildred added, "This has been a year of surprises, and I think there are more to come. I feel it in my bones!"

And so it went!

In September the Pickax Fourth of July parade took place on Labor Day.

In September, also, the Old Grist Mill opened under K Fund ownership--with a new manager.

In October, the Pickax Music Center opened with the Andrew Lloyd Webber musicalCATS, Uncle Louie MacLeod having secured the amateur rights to produce it. Besides, the choral group had all those costumes with tails left over from theKitKat review.

In October, also, Qwilleran moved his household back to the condo for the winter.

In November, the Ledfield Museum of Wildlife opened in a downtown warehouse, with mounted birds and beasts exhibited in naturalistic scenes created by the theatre club's set designers.

In December, a 500-dollar-a-ticket preview of the Ledfields' Old Manse raised $20,000 for child welfare. The sum was matched dollar-for-dollar by the K fund.

Also, in December, Koko became suddenly nervous--hearing inaudible noises and talking to himself. Qwilleran thought, something's going to happen! And then it happened!

In January, exactly six months after the demise of Nathan and Doris Ledfield, a sealed envelope that had long been in the vault of the law office was opened in the presence of witnesses. It was a document bequeathing a billion dollars for a Ledfield Academy of Music, specializing in keyboard and strings and of such excellence as to honor the name of Ledfield in music circles worldwide.

The announcement was released to news media from coast to coast. Included was an endowment in the form of blue-chip investments that would be available for expenses not covered by income from such an establishment.

There was one stipulation that stunned the witnesses and divided the good folk of Moose County. The magnanimous offer was made to any American city with a population of one million or more!

Press and pulpit lauded the Purple Point couple for their generosity in the past and their concern for the future quality of life in Moose County, specifically: the museum of art and antiques, a facility for the study and enjoyment of music, and a wildlife museum of interest.

Dissenters on the grapevine complained indignantly that the billion-dollar bequest should have stayed in Moose County to promote growth, build a new downtown, and improve recreation facilities.

</file>

<file= AmE06_L02>

Took down my number and
address and all that. And we wished each other luck. All
that sort of thing."
Bernie was refilling his coffee cup, looking even
prettier than he remembered, but not totally happy with
him at the moment. No matter, Leaphorn was feeling
fine. Rested, refreshed, enjoying the sweet smell of the
autumn breeze drifting in through those pretty white
curtains, bordered with lace, which replaced the grimy
blinds that once obscured the windows, noticing that this
little room seemed larger now and no longer assaulted
his nostrils with what he had thought of as the Jim smell,
the odor of some sort of special lubricant Sergeant Chee
always used on his pistol, his holster, belt, uniform straps,
probably his shoes, and maybe even on his toothbrush.
Now the place smelled . . . he couldn't think of a name for
it. It simply smelled good. Sort of like that subtle perfume
scent Bernie sometimes used. And through the open
window, the breeze brought in the hooting sound of a
dove, the chittering of robins nesting by the river, and as-
sorted whistles and chirps of the various birds the chang-
ing seasons brought to this bend in the San Juan River. He
could even hear the faint sound of the river itself gurgling
along just below Chee's old trailer home. Ah, Leaphorn
was thinking, how good it is to be in home territory again.
How good it is to be retired.
But Bernie was still thinking of Tommy Vang.
"Don't you wonder how he can possibly handle all
that by himself ? I mean, getting back to Laos, wasn't it?
Wouldn't there be all sorts of visa problems? Things like
that. And I'll bet he didn't even have a passport. And how
about the money? You haven't explained that."
"Well," Leaphorn said. And would have said more,
but Chee interjected himself into the conversation.
"Bernie cares about people," he said. "She's a sort of
dedicated worrier."
"Maybe she should have started worrying a little ear-
lier," Leaphorn said. "Done some serious worrying about
what she was getting into here."
Bernadette Manuelito Chee laughed. "No," she said.
"Now I just add Jim to the list of people I have to worry
about."
"What I'm curious about," said Chee, changing the
subject, "is why you got involved in this in the first place.
That call you made about the Totter obituary, for example.
You still haven't explained that. I'd like to know what that
was all about."
"I'll try to explain that," Leaphorn said. "But first let
me give Bernie some assurance that Tommy Vang can
take care of himself. Tommy had been sort of a travel
agent for Delos for years, as well as cook, valet, pants
presser, and so forth. He'd arrange Delos's trips, make
the reservations, get the tickets, all that sort of thing. Do
it by telephone, or sometimes online with the computer, I
guess. Used Delos's credit cards. I think he worked with a
Flagstaff travel agency. They knew him. Even got Delos his
boarding passes. No standing in line for Delos."
Bernie was not quite satisfied. "But how about the of-
ficial stuff ? Travel documents. I guess he wouldn't need a
passport to travel within this country, but if you're going
to another country, doesn't the airline want to see if you
have what it takes to land there?"
Leaphorn nodded. Thinking that was exactly the
question that had troubled him. Still did a little, for that
matter. But it hadn't troubled Vang. He'd asked Tommy,
and Tommy said Mr. Delos had lots of passports, lots of
visa papers. From where? And Tommy said lots of blank
forms from lots of countries, and eleven or twelve differ-
ent passports in his travel file there in his office. "From
different countries and with different pictures stuck in
them, loose, to stick a new one in if he needed to look
different."
Bernie was looking skeptical. Leaphorn nodded. But
Bernie wanted a better answer.
"So that's how he gets on the plane then. Just uses
phony papers. Same with getting off in Thailand, or Laos,
or where he's going?"
"Well, Tommy didn't seem to have any worries about
that. At least he told me he didn't."
"Just phony documents," Bernie said.
"Come on, Bernie," Chee said. "This Vang fellow
knows his way around. I wouldn't worry about him so
much. But I'd like to know about some other things.
Where did he get his traveling money, for example, and
just what happened to Mr. Delos? I'm guessing he must
be dead. But how did that happen? And what happened
to the truck Tommy Vang was driving?"
"The truck!" Bernie said, and laughed.
"I don't know for sure about the truck," Leaphorn
said. "Maybe he drove it to Phoenix, left it in the airport
parking garage, or maybe he left it parked at the Delos
house in Flagstaff, and called the limo service Delos used
and had them drive him to the airport. Either way, I guess
the truck gets hauled off and impounded eventually. As
for the other questions, I have to pause here a moment
and explain something. Something personal."
"Oh," Bernie said.
While he thought about how he was going to do that
explaining, he noticed Chee staring at him, looking grim
and determined.
"No heirs, you think?" Chee asked, still concerned
about the future of the truck. "No Delos family back there
somewhere?"
"I hope so," Leaphorn said. "If they show up to claim
that mansion of his and his property, I would dearly love
to talk to them. Find out who this man was. Where he
came from. All that."
"You don't know?" Bernie said.
Leaphorn shook his head.
"You haven't told us much of anything about what
happened to Mr. Delos, Lieutenant," Jim Chee said. "We
sort of gather that he must be dead. But what happened
to him?"
Leaphorn sipped the coffee, which was much, much
better than the coffee he'd remembered drinking here in
Jim Chee's home before Bernie had become Mrs. Chee.
"Sergeant Chee," Leaphorn said. "Bernie has not yet
been sworn in again as Officer Bernadette Manuelito.
Correct me, make that Officer Bernadette Chee. But I
gather she will soon be back in Navajo Tribal Police uni-
form and resuming her duties. So you both will be sworn
to uphold the law. Right?"
That provoked raised eyebrows but no answers.
"Therefore, I want you to know that if you manage
to pry everything out of me, a former lawman but now
retired to full standing as a layman, you might find your-
self with some decisions to make. And if you make them
wrong, I might find myself, ah, possibly in trouble."
Chee looked glum. Bernie made a horrified face.
"A homicide? A murder? What in the world happened?"
"Let's just drift off into a sort of vague fantasy,"
Leaphorn said. "Remember this as a sort of tale-telling
session. An exercise of flights of imagination. Now skip to the future. Imagine yourself under oath, being ques-
tioned. You are being asked what Joe Leaphorn told you
about this Delos affair. I want you to be able to say that
Leaphorn, old, in his dotage, and widely known in law en-
forcement as a tale teller, had just rambled along with a
sort of fantastic account involving a shape-shifter version
of skinwalkers, poisoned cherries, and things like that.
Very fantastic, not something to be taken seriously."
Chee didn't look happy with this. "In other words,
you're not going to tell us if Delos was killed, and if so,
who killed him, or any of that sort of stuff."
"In other words," Leaphorn said, settling back com-
fortably in his chair, "I am going to suggest you imagine
that this Delos has gone off to one of those private hunt-
ing places on the Colorado-New Mexico border to shoot
himself a trophy elk, and that he's ordered Tommy Vang
to run an errand first, and then come to the hunting cabin
to pick him up, bringing along a report on what he has ac-
complished. You with me?"
"I guess," Chee said, looking unhappy.
"All right, then. We'll imagine that Leaphorn, newly
retired and feeling sort of bored and disconnected, de-
cided he wanted to make amends with an elderly woman
he had offended when he was starting his police work.
And let's imagine that led him to cross paths with a skin-
walker - one of the shape-shifter variety, who about a
quarter century earlier had stolen ten gallons of pinyon
sap from a lady known as Grandma Peshlakai. This shape
shifter had once called himself Perkins, then other un-
known names, probably, and then Ray Shewnack. When
their paths first crossed, he had quit using Shewnack and
was calling himself Totter. You still following?"

"Go ahead," Bernie said. "We're listening."
So Leaphorn went ahead with this fantasy. The only
major interruption came when Chee stopped him, con-
tending that cherries couldn't be used to poison people
because the poison would make them taste too terrible
to swallow. Leaphorn handled that by referring Jim to the
textbook on criminal poisoning, in which the tasteless,
odorless, water-soluble poison was described, and from
that to the still-unsolved murder of Mel Bork, in which
Bork fell victim to a poisoned cherry. From that point he
skipped ahead, with neither Chee nor Bernie stopping
him with questions.
About ten minutes, and another cup of coffee, later,
he stopped. He took a final sip, clicked the cup down in
the saucer.
"So there we were," he said. "The sun was coming
up, Mr. Delos had shot his giant elk and left it for the
ranch crew to deal with. Tommy Vang had obtained travel
money, and I had gotten several fifty-dollar bills to repay
Grandma Peshlakai for her pinyon sap. Delonie had a
broken arm and a bruised rib that needed attention, so
we went home." Leaphorn made a dismissive gesture.
"End of episode," he said. "Now it's time for you two to tell
me more about your honeymoon."
"Wait a minute," Chee said. "What about this Delos
character. You just left him there? Or what?"
"Shape shifters, remember," Leaphorn said. "Delos was
one of them. Remember how it goes. You see one of them
doing something scary, and you shoot at him or some-
thing, and now it's an owl, or a coyote, or nothing at all."
Chee considered that. "I think you're sort of making
fun of me. Me being the man who would like to be a shaman." He produced a reluctant grin. "I guess that's all
right, though. It's your polite way of telling us that you're
not going to tell us what happened to Mr. Delos."
"Or whoever he was," Leaphorn said. "But I will make
you two a promise. You have a first anniversary of your
wedding coming up next summer. If you invite Professor
Bourbonette and me to that, we will come. If nothing bad
has happened by then - I mean relative to Mr. Delos and
all that - then I will finish telling you this fantastic tale.
Give you the last chapter."
Chee considered that, still looking unhappy. Shook
his head. "I guess we'll have to settle for that, Bernie. Is
that okay with you?"
"Not quite," Bernie said. "I want you to tell us about
going to see Grandma Peshlakai. I'll bet she was sur-
prised to see you. And happy, too. What did she say?"
"Well, surprised anyway," Leaphorn said, and grinned.
"I told her we had found the man who stole her pinyon
sap. And I told her we collected the money from him to
repay her. Fifty dollars for each bucket, and I handed her
the two fifty-dollar bills, and two other fifties for com-
pounded interest, and I said something like, 'Well, I finally
got the job done.'
"And she said, 'Well, young man, it sure took you a
long time to do it.'"

</file>

<file= AmE06_L03>

"I have finished," said David John, moving a piece. "Checkmate, sir."
After the children had been removed, I said to Sethos, "You
shouldn't have let him win."
"I didn't let him win," said Sethos.
F ROM M ANUSCRIPT H
It could not be said that many of their seasons in Egypt had lacked
distraction, but to Ramses this was one of the worst. Not only did they
have a wanted fugitive hiding out with them, but the discovery of Tut-
ankhamon's tomb would bring half the world to the small town of
Luxor. There was no question of keeping the find a secret. It had been
known, and exaggerated, by the citizens of Luxor almost from the first
moment. Arthur Merton, the Times correspondent, had been allowed
into the tomb on November 30, and had wired his dispatch the same
day. Representatives of the Cairo newspapers had begun to arrive. The
hotels were full and some of the dragomen were wooing tourists by
telling them about the great discovery and offering to show it to them.
By December 3, there was nothing much to see, since Carter had re-
filled the tomb, but that didn't deter the curious. The sheer numbers of
strangers provided perfect cover for assassins. If Sethos's adversaries
hadn't become suspicious of "Anthony Bissinghurst" by now, they
weren't the professionals Ramses believed them to be.
His premonitions turned out to be correct, but not in the way he ex-
pected. One night shortly after the tomb had been refilled, they were sit-
ting on the veranda after dinner when they heard hoofbeats
approaching.
"Someone's in a hurry," Ramses said, going to the door. "Good
Lord, it's Bertie. What's wrong?"
"Can Nefret come? Right away?"
"Of course." Nefret rose without haste, her voice taking on its note
of professional calm. "Who is ill, Bertie? Your mother?"
"No, thank God. That is . . ." He removed his hat. "Sorry. I'm
afraid I rather lost my head. It's not a matter of life and death, I sup-
pose, but he's an awful sight, covered with blood and - "
"Cyrus?" Emerson demanded.
"Nadji. He went over to Luxor this evening, and we were just starting
to worry about him when he staggered in, covered with blood and - "
"Let me get my medical bag," Nefret said.
"I will start the motorcar," Emerson exclaimed.
"We will take the horses," his wife said, putting her embroidery back
in its bag.
"Now, Peabody, the motorcar is in perfect condition. Selim and I
had it out for a spin yesterday."
"The steering apparatus came loose."
"But the brakes worked," Emerson said triumphantly. "And Selim
has repaired - "
"No, Emerson. Not in the dark and along that road."
Ramses slipped out. By the time the others reached the stables he
had roused Jamad and saddled Risha and Nefret's Moonlight. Nefret
hurried in, bag in hand, while, at his mother's insistence, several other
mounts, including hers, were being saddled. He had known it was a for-
lorn hope that she would remain behind.
"We'll go on ahead," Nefret announced. "With Bertie."
"Aren't you coming?" Ramses asked Sethos.
Hands thrust into his pockets, he stared unenthusiastically at the
mare Jamad was saddling, and then shrugged. "I suppose I ought."
Ramses left them to it, following his wife out the open gate and
along the road. Nefret set a rapid pace. The Castle shone through the
dark like a public monument, and the gates were open. Hastily dis-
mounting, they hurried into the house, where Cyrus was waiting.
"Sorry if we scared you," he said. "Cat says it's not as bad as it
looked, but Bertie got worked up and - "
"Don't apologize, Cyrus," Nefret said. "Where is he?"
Nadji had been put to bed in his own room. Though Katherine had
sponged off his face and bared chest, he was still a nasty sight. When he
saw Nefret he smiled apologetically.
"They should not have bothered you. Mrs. Vandergelt is a good
nurse and I am not much hurt."
"You look like hell," Ramses said, studying the bruises and cuts and
the blood matted in his hair. "What happened? Should he talk, Nefret?"
She had given the exposed parts of his body a quick inspection. Now
she pulled down the sheet that covered him to the waist. He was wear-
ing loose drawers, but he let out a cry of protest.
"I'll go," Katherine said tactfully. "You mustn't mind Dr. Emerson,
Nadji, she is accustomed to - er - this."
Cyrus or one of the male servants must have helped him undress and
change clothes, Ramses thought. Brick-red with embarrassment, Nadji
looked even younger than his real age, which was probably in the early
twenties, but he swallowed and tried to pretend he was accustomed to
being examined by a woman. "Aywa. Yes. Of course, I understand."
Fortunately Nefret had finished checking the lower part of his body
before the rest of the party burst in. Nefret smoothly raised the sheet as
Nadji started convulsively.
"It could be worse," she reported, before her mother-in-law could
demand details. "He got a nasty thump on the head, but there's no sign
of concussion. Looks as if someone went at him with a club and another
someone with a knife."
"What happened?" Emerson demanded, looming over the bed.
"Just a minute, Father." Nefret stirred drops into a glass of water and
held it to Nadji's lips. "Drink this, it will help the pain while I disinfect
these cuts."
"I will assist," said her mother-in-law eagerly.
"Not necessary, Mother."
Nadji let out a sigh of relief and let his head fall back on the pillow.
Obviously the Sitt Hakim terrified him even more than her formidable
husband.
"I will tell you, Father of Curses, what little I know. I had gone to a
coffeeshop in Luxor, and when I started back toward the landing two
men attacked me. I do not know who they were, their faces were cov-
ered, but I took them for ordinary thieves. At first I fought back, but I
was losing and no one answered my calls for help, so then I thought, if
it is my money they want, let them take it. I fell on the ground. They
went on kicking and pulling at my clothing, and I had visions of Par-
adise and believed I would die. Then . . ." His brow furrowed. "Then I
thought I heard a far-off voice say, 'Fools. A man may increase his
height but not lessen it.' It must have a been a dream, for the words
make no sense."
Not to him, perhaps. Ramses looked at his uncle, standing silently in
the corner.
"What happened then?" Emerson asked.
"I fainted," Nadji said simply. "When I woke no one was there. So I
came here. I am sorry, Mr. Vandergelt, that I was late."
Cyrus patted him on the shoulder. "Not your fault, my boy. How do
you feel?"
"Sleepy." He flinched a little as Nefret dabbed antiseptic on the head
wound.
"The worst is over," she said. "You should have been wearing your
turban."
"They pulled it off." Nadji let out a weak giggle. "They pulled at my
hair too. It hurt."
He had talked more that night than in the entire time they had
known him, Ramses thought. Talked sensibly . . . even glibly. As if he
had thought his story out in advance.
"Sleep now." Nefret pulled the sheet up to the patient's chin. "I will
leave more medicine. You'll need it tomorrow morning, because you will
be stiff and sore."
"How is he? What happened to him?" Suzanne was waiting outside
the door. She had kept out of the way until then, and Ramses couldn't
help thinking her inquiry sounded somewhat perfunctory. They assured
her that the attack had been an ordinary attempt at robbery, and that
Nadji had not been much hurt.
"Can I do anything to help?" The question was directed at Cyrus,
and accompanied by one of her sweetest smiles.
Picturing Nadji's face if the girl was allowed to sit by his bedside,
Ramses assured her that her assistance was not needed.
They refused Cyrus's invitation to stay for a drink. He was eager to
discuss the revelations of the evening, but it couldn't be done in the
presence of Katherine and Suzanne. Ramses knew they would have to
take Cyrus into their confidence before long. His mother had told him
what Cyrus had said about Sethos: "Whenever that fellow turns up it
means trouble." Ramses couldn't have agreed more. They had managed
to put their old friend off so far, but Cyrus was too shrewd to miss that
revealing statement Nadji had overheard from his attackers. It could
only mean that they had mistaken the young man for someone else.
And, given his checkered past, Sethos was the logical suspect.
They held the horses to a walk so they could talk. Sethos edged close
to his brother.
"Congratulations," said Emerson, who had observed this maneuver.
"Once again an innocent took the beating meant for you."
Sethos didn't bother to deny it. "They're getting closer. Why did
they pick on him?"
"Because not even you could disguise yourself as a petite French-
woman," Nefret said.
"Then that only leaves Anthony Bissinghurst, doesn't it?"
"Not necessarily," Ramses said grudgingly. He didn't at all mind see-
ing his uncle in a state of nerves. "I wonder if attacks on male tourists
have increased recently?"
"I wouldn't be at all surprised if they had," Sethos said, cheering up.
"I could be anybody, even a tourist."
"Until Margaret turns up," Ramses said. "I can't imagine what's
been keeping her."
"She may not have been in England when the rumors about the
tomb began," Nefret said.
"She'll certainly have heard the news by now," Emerson said. "Mer-
ton's article was in the Times on the thirtieth. If she left right away she
could be here any day now."
"Hmmm," said his wife.
"What's that supposed to mean?" Emerson demanded.
"It means that we will deal with Margaret when the time comes.
Sufficient unto the day is the evil thereof."
The day wasn't over. Daoud and Selim were waiting on the veranda.
The former's face was grave.
"Now what?" Emerson demanded. It took a great deal to wipe the
smile from Daoud's face.
"Bad news, Father of Curses."
"We know about the attack on Nadji. We've just come from there,"
Ramses said. "He isn't much hurt."
Daoud shook his head. "Not that, Ramses. It is worse, much worse."
"You make it worse," Selim said emphatically. "It was an accident,
meaningless - "
"For God's sake," Emerson shouted. "What has happened?"
"The golden bird," Daoud intoned. "It has been eaten by a cobra,
the defender of the pharaoh. It means death to those who invade his
tomb."

FROM MANUSCRIPT H (CONTINUED )
LORD CARNARVON AND HIS DAUGHTER LEFT FOR CAIRO AND ENGLAND
on the fourth of December. Ramses happened to be in Luxor that day
on business of his own, so he was privileged to see their procession
sweep through town with all the fanfare of a royal progress, surrounded
by admirers and followed by the press. Carnarvon passed him without a
glance. Perhaps he didn't see me, Ramses thought charitably. Carter did
see him. He raised one hand in a half-hearted salute before hurrying on.
Carter followed his patron to Cairo two days later. According to
Daoud, he was saddened by the loss of his bird, but refused to understand
the dire implications, which were evident to every sensible individual.
"Bah," said Emerson. "It was only a bird, and cobras are not uncom-
mon."
"But the omen of the golden bird was true," Daoud replied. "The
golden tomb was found. And is not the cobra the symbol of the
pharaoh?"
"He has you there, Father," said Ramses.
"So you should be grateful to God that you are not the one who
found the tomb," Daoud said earnestly. He bade them a ceremonial
farewell and went off in something of a hurry.

</file>

<file= AmE06_L04>

ONE

Earlier that morning, the call had come while Inspector Kate Martinelli of the San Francisco Police Department was in the middle of a highly volatile negotiation.

"I'll hurt myself," the person on the other side of the room threatened.

"Now, that's no good." Kate's response employed the voice of patient reason that she had clung to for the last few minutes, as she desperately wished that the official negotiator would return and take command.

"Yes it is good." Her opponent saw with crystal clarity that self-destruction was a powerful weapon against Kate.

"Now, think about it, sweetie. If you hurt yourself, it's going to hurt."

The mop of curly yellow hair went still as the green eyes narrowed in thought, and Kate's soul contracted with the weird mixture of stifled laughter and heart-wrenching submission that had welled up inside ten thousand times over the past three years and ten months: The child was so like her mother  -  her looks, her intelligence, her innate sensitivity  -  she might have been a clone. Kate pushed the sensation away from her throat and said, still reasonable, "We'd all be sad if you were hurt, but you would be the one that was hurting. Now, if you let me lift you down from there, we'll talk about whether you're old enough and careful enough to play with those things."

"I'm careful," the child insisted.

"You come down, and then we'll talk about it," Kate repeated. A good negotiator only retreated so far, then stood firm.

It worked. Nora's chubby little arms went out and Kate moved quickly forward before her daughter tumbled off the high shelf. The arms clung to her fiercely, giving lie to the small person's declaration of fearlessness; Kate's arms clung just as hard.

Then she set the child firmly down and bent to look directly into those large, bright eyes, arranging her face so she would look very serious. "Nora, you must never do that again. It really would make me very, very sad if you hurt yourself falling down."

"And Mamalee."

"Yes, and Mama Lee, too." In fact, Kate was wondering if it might even be possible to negotiate her way into an agreement with Nora that Lee not be told about this little episode, but voices in the hallway and the sounds of the front door, followed by the approach of Lee's uneven footsteps, told her that it wasn't going to happen.

And indeed, the moment Lee cleared the doorway Nora popped out from behind Kate and informed her mother, "I climbed up high and Mamakay said that if I comed down we'd talk about if I could play with the dollies."

"I had to pee," Kate explained guiltily. "Thirty seconds, and when I came out the little monkey was up on the sideboard."

There ensued a protracted discussion as to the nature of trust, which was Lee's current teaching concept, and Kate had to admit, the child seemed to follow most of what her PhD, psychotherapist mother had to say on the matter. After she'd put her two cents' worth in, telling Lee about Nora's willingness to harm herself if it got her the delicate Russian nesting dolls, the discussion turned to the evils of blackmail. That, however, seemed to exhaust the child's patience, and she interrupted to demand that she be given the dolls.

"Not today," Lee said firmly. And over the protest, she explained, "If you hadn't climbed up high after them, if you'd just asked us about it, we might have said yes. But because you didn't, you're going to have to wait until tomorrow."

It was scary, Kate reflected not for the first time, how reasonable the child was: She pouted for a count of five, then allowed Lee to take her hand and lead her to the kitchen for a discussion of the weekend itinerary. Kate watched the two blond heads, the two slim bodies, the two sets of unreliable legs  -  one pair made so by youth, the other by a bullet  -  as her partner and their daughter settled in to discuss the relative lunchtime merits of turkey versus peanut butter.

Only then did she remember the phone call that she'd been on her way to answer when she'd glanced up to see the little body clambering high above the hardwood floor. She went over and punched the playback on the machine, and heard the dispatcher ask for her to call back, then add that she was going to call Al Hawkin as well. Kate didn't bother calling Ops, just hit Al's number on the speed dial. From the sound of the background noise when he picked up, he was in the car.

"Hawkin."

"Hey, Al," she said. "What did the Ops center want?"

"There's a body in the park  -  but it's the other side of the bridge."

"In Marin? So why call us?"

"Jurisdiction over there's an absolute bitch, but the vic lives over here and it looks like the park's just the dump site. So until we find the murder site, the Park Police investigator, and his supervisor, thought we should be brought in early, in case it ends up in our hands. They've already called our Crime Scene out for the site."

"Marin's going to have a fit."

"Our side's going to have the fit. I'd say, if you're doing anything, don't break up your Saturday."

"No, I should come if you're going, and I think Lee's finished with her clients for the day. Let me just check with her."

"Why don't you call me if you don't want me to come by? I'm about twenty minutes out." Which meant he'd not been home when he got the call  -  he lived about an hour south of the city, but knowing Al, he had his full kit with him wherever he'd been, briefcase, forms, gun.

"Will do. Do you want anything to eat?"

"Jani and I had a big breakfast, so no thanks."

"Twenty minutes."

"Oh, and Kate? The guy said to wear sturdy shoes and a warm coat."

"Thanks for the warning."

Lee scowled at the news that Kate would be leaving, but she'd known that Kate was on call, and she'd been with Kate long enough to know that sometimes life came first, and sometimes death did.

"Can you call if you're not going to be home for dinner? I told Nora we'd make pizza."

Nora was neatly distracted from the disappointment of Kate's departure by the reminder. "Yay, pizza!" she cried with a jubilant dance.

"It should be fine, it may not even be our case, depending on how the lines are drawn on jurisdiction, but the d.b. lived here, so they offered us a look-in."

"Oh, what a treat," Lee said dryly.

"What's a deebee?" Nora piped up.

Kate gave her partner an apologetic glance and opened her mouth to try for an explanation about dead bodies that would satisfy the child without planting macabre images in her impressionable mind, but Lee had already begun with, "Well, you see, sweetheart . . ." Kate slipped away, letting Lee deal with that particular matter.

Seventeen minutes later, Kate was out in front of the house, waiting for Al Hawkin's car to round the corner. A neighbor came along the sidewalk at a snail's pace, a dog leash in one hand and a toddler's hand in the other. She greeted Kate, reminding Kate of the planning meeting the following week at the preschool, inquiring about the acupuncturist Lee had mentioned a while ago, and tossing out ideas for the upcoming street fair. The entire conversation was held with the woman moving slowly past, never quite coming to a halt while dog and toddler explored the street; the trio continued at the same pace until the corner, when they turned toward the park.

Kate smiled, and raised a hand to wave to another neighbor. She and Lee had lived in the Noe Valley neighborhood for nearly eight years, and never had a place felt more like home. Kate rarely thought anymore about the magnificent house on tony Russian Hill where they had once lived, cop and therapist rubbing shoulders with the city's cream of socialites and politicos. That place had been Lee's, an inheritance from her overbearing and disapproving mother, and had looked out on two incomparable bridges, San Francisco Bay, Alcatraz Island, and Mount Tamalpais in the background. When Lee finally decided to put the house on the market, it had sold before the print was dry on the advertisement, for more money than Kate could envision.

They had traded the gorgeous, intricately constructed Arts and Crafts-style house with the million-dollar view for a tumbledown Victorian whose chief virtue in their eyes was also, as far as the listing agent was concerned, its chief drawback: The elderly couple who had lived in the house all the five decades of their married life, unwilling to abandon the upper levels but increasingly unable to negotiate the stairs, had hacked up the back rooms and put in a tiny elevator.

Kate turned to gaze affectionately at the house. Most buyers would have been daunted by the enormous expense of ripping out the mechanism and restoring the rooms to their previous condition, but for Kate, the one-person elevator had been her personal deciding factor in its favor: Lee would never have agreed to its installation, but if it was here anyway, well, why not make use of it? The personal lift, just large enough for the wheelchair during Lee's bad times, was an unvoiced recognition that the effects of the bullet through Lee's spine, twelve years before, would never completely leave them; it had made their lives infinitely simpler.

The enormous price brought by the Russian Hill house had enabled them to make other renovations, from new carpeting and fresh paint to a complete rebuilding of the kitchen. Lee had also set up her therapy rooms in the front and was seeing clients again.

Most of all, however, what they had gained with the move was a thing that neither had known they needed: a community. They had traded socialites for Socialists, politicos for legal-aid lawyers, middle-aged white faces for a rainbow coalition of young families. Of the seven people Kate saw as she passed down the front walk that morning, she knew five of them by name, and had eaten dinner with three of those. Two doors down lived Nora's best friend, an eight-year-old girl from China, the oldest of three multiracial children adopted by a bank manager and his aromatherapist wife. Lee's long-time caregiver lived with his new family three blocks away. The woman in the big corner house had recently opened up a Montessori-style child-care facility, which meant that Nora could spend two afternoons a week with her friends. Typically, last summer the neighborhood association had voted to close the street one Sunday so everyone could hold a block party.

Small-town life in the big city.

Al's car appeared around the corner. Kate waved one last time, to the woman she sometimes went jogging with (who this morning was out running with her black Lab instead), tossed her coat and briefcase into the backseat, and hopped in beside him.

"How's the kid?" he asked before her buckle had latched.

"Perfect, as always. And yours?"

"They're all fine. Jules has a major crush, I quote, on her lab partner, Maya is thinking about a summer camp run entirely in Latin, and Daniel has discovered guns."

"Oh, Jani must be pleased about that."

"The genetic inclination of boys, I suppose, to make weapons out of anything. Sticks, Legos, organic vegetarian hot dogs."

"I know, I see it all the time at Nora's preschool."

"Still, he's also into sports  -  he's wants to try out for Little League next year. That's where I was, throwing balls for the second-graders."

Al was enjoying his second trip through parenting, at the same time his grandchildren were coming along.

</file>

<file= AmE06_L05>

CHAPTER 1

Eddie Elkins ambled down Fantasy Avenue. A light breeze penetrated his costume, and he felt relatively cool inside the furry white rabbit suit. Of course, these were the balmy days of April. July and August would be unbearable, but for Eddie, it would be a small price to pay.

Six weeks ago he had lied, cheated, and bribed his way into the best job in the world. And now, he was Rambo. Rambunctious Rabbit, the most famous character Dean Lamaar ever created. The acknowledged superstar at Lamaar's Familyland.

Eddie waved at the kids as he wandered through the sprawling theme park. Occasionally some wiseass teenager would give him the finger, but for the most part kids loved him.

And Eddie loved kids. In fact, he loved them so much that he was mandated by Megan's Law to register with the Los Angeles police, so they could notify people in his community that he had moved into their neighborhood. But he hadn't registered. Not this time. He had complied with the law when he lived in Boston. But the Irish bastard across the street keyed Eddie's car, slashed his tires, and put dog shit in his mailbox. Eddie tried to explain that there's a big difference between high-risk offenders who are violent and regular guys like Eddie, who would never hurt anyone, but the guy wouldn't listen.

Then one day Eddie made the mistake of saying hello to the man's ten-year-old son. That night two bullets came flying through his bedroom window.

Eddie moved to Rhode Island and registered with the Woonsocket police. Life was better there. Nobody wanted to kill him, but nobody wanted to hire him either. Not for the kind of jobs Eddie wanted. He finally got work as a clerk in a paintball supply store, where he had plenty of time to think about his life.

He was born Edward Warren Ellison in Trenton, New Jersey, majored in English Lit at Rutgers, was never any good at sports and was never really comfortable with women, although he had had sex with four of them. People said he looked like Buddy Holly, or at least what Buddy would have looked like at age thirty-six, if not for that plane crash. Eddie even wore the black horn-rimmed glasses to heighten the effect.

He tried real hard to break his pattern with the kids, especially after the first conviction. He had a smart therapist, but stopping wasn't as easy as the shrinks make it sound. He didn't want to hurt the children, but fondling wasn't hurting. After three months in Rhode Island, he decided it would be easier to find a better job in a big city. Especially if he didn't register.

He moved to Los Angeles. Getting a new name and new identity cards were easier than he thought. Other men like him had done it and there was the New Beginnings Network on the Web. His closest confidant, whom he e-mailed almost every day, was Vandy333.

Vandy was divorced with two kids of his own and had been a school principal in Tennessee for twelve years. "Changing my identity made all the difference," Vandy had told him.

So Eddie Ellison became Eddie Elkins. He found a nice clean place to live and set up his new persona just the way New Beginnings instructed him. Finally came his big break. They told him about Caleo.

Anthony Caleo was a scumbag, but he was a great guy to know. He worked in Human Resources at Familyland. His job was to verify the résumés of people applying for jobs. Caleo didn't care about New Beginnings. He only cared about what was in it for Caleo. He charged Eddie six thousand bucks.

For that he cleared Eddie's bogus résumé and prepped him on how to handle the one-on-one interview with Marjorie MacBride. And that's how Eddie landed the job of his dreams.

His first day at work he reported to the Wardrobe Department. One of the Dressers, a chatty little Mexican woman whose name tag said Provi, helped him into the furry white Rambunctious Rabbit costume, with its distinctive red, white, and blue denim overalls. Provi was prattling on, but Elkins's mind and heart were racing too loud and fast for him to hear.

He couldn't believe it. He was Rambunctious Fucking Rabbit. More recognizable than The President of the United States. Maybe even The Pope. Children would literally flock to him. How many guys did he know who would trade their left nut for this gig?

"Elkins?"

He looked up, as Provi's thick-toothed black comb raked over his hairy white rabbit arms. The speaker, standing ten feet away, was Danny DeVito tall with an Arnold Schwarzenegger chest. His face and close-cropped gray hair had the wear and tear of a fifty-year-old. But the body, in black nylon warm-up pants and a tight black tank top, had the muscle tone of a college wrestler.

"I'm Dante, your Character Coach," he said. "Let's see what kind of a rabbit you are. Don't put the head on yet. Just let me see you walk over here."

Provi gave the suit one final fluff and stood back. Elkins inhaled, took one bold step forward and immediately hooked the front edge of one giant rabbit's foot to the back of the other. Gravity took over and down he went, floppy ears over cotton tail, onto the rubber-matted floor. Provi let out a loud aye-aye-aye.

"That's why you don't put the head on yet," Dante said, helping him up. "Don't want you to break it." "But it's okay if I break my own head? Why didn't you warn me?"

"You learn faster this way," Dante said. "What size shoes do you wear?"

"Ten and a half."

"Well now you're wearing size twenty-four rabbit's feet and eighteen pounds of fur. Why don't you try it again?" Dante said, stepping to the other side of the room. Elkins hobbled his way toward Dante and made it to the other side without falling. "How's that?" he asked. "Fantastic," Dante said, "if you were one of Jerry's Kids. You gotta be animated. Bouncy, springy," Dante said, bouncing and springing across the room. "Don't worry. By the time I'm finished you'll be dancing around the park like Adolf Nureyev."

It took ten hours. "Tomorrow I'll show you how to find your way around every inch of this park," Dante said. "Then we'll go over the rules for handling kids. There's a right way and a wrong way, and you gotta be real careful. Don't scare 'em, don't drop 'em and don't touch 'em in any wrong places."

They worked with dolls. Eddie had no problem not touching them in any wrong places. On the last day of training, Dante introduced him to a squat, moon-faced woman with a thick mane of bottled blonde hair, a dozen tiny gold earrings on each side of her head, and eyes that convinced Eddie there was nothing going on between the earrings. "This is Noreen Stubiak," he said. "She'll be your Keeper."

Caleo had prepared him for this, but Eddie played dumb. "My what?"

"Every character gets a Keeper. They follow you around the park. Somebody fucks with you, bam, she's right there to help."

Eddie smiled at her. "So you're going to protect me," he said. "You got a gun?" Noreen made a snorting sound that Eddie took for a laugh.

"Don't give her no ideas," Dante said. "She's got a walkie-talkie. Anybody starts up with you, she calls Security to bail you out."

Eddie knew the truth. Noreen was a spy. He hated the idea of having a watchdog follow him around, but it didn't take long to figure out that Noreen was the best possible Keeper he could have. She was a highly unmotivated, twice-divorced piece of flotsam from the Total Loser's Section of Trailer Park City, and Stubiak, Eddie decided, was Polish for 'dumb as shit.' But she had one redeeming quality. It didn't take much to get her to look the other way.

Every few days Eddie would give her a little gift. A Faith Hill CD. A bag of scrunchies for her mop of revolting yellow hair. Or a bottle of her favorite perfume, Eau de Wal-Mart. Maybe she knew what he was up to; maybe she didn't. Either way, she never said a word. The weeks that followed were the happiest of his life. Four times a day Eddie, dressed as Rambunctious Rabbit, would hop on the Easy Street Trolley and head for Tyke Town. That's where the younger kids were. Just this afternoon, he had spotted the boy. Asian. Stunning. Six years old, maybe seven. The perfect age. A little shy, but not afraid.

Eddie had waved at him. The kid waved back. Eddie followed up with a little hippety-hoppety dance, and the kid smiled. Then he walked over, purposely almost tripping over his two giant rabbit's feet. The kid laughed. Eddie stretched out his white-gloved paws and Mom helped her son jump into the eager arms of Rambunctious Rabbit. Eddie slid one hand between the boy's legs and the other behind his head. He touched his rabbit nose to the kid's nose and got another laugh from the boy and a happy shriek from the mother. The father scrambled for his camera. "Can we get the statue in the background?" he said, in surprisingly perfect English.

Eddie snuggled the tiny genitals in his palm and walked toward the thirty-foot bronze likeness of the late Dean Lamaar. Dad took a picture. Then another. Take your time, Eddie thought, re-cupping his hand so that his thumb rested in the crack of the sweet little butt. This, he thought, as cold, clammy sweat trickled from every pore, is even better than the school bus driving days. Good pay, good benefits, and parents who lift up their kids and hand them to me crotch first.

At that moment, Eddie had less than an hour to live. He spent another twenty minutes in Tyke Town, then he and Noreen headed for the tunnel that led to The Rabbit Hole, the vast underground world hidden beneath Familyland's 866 acres. Above ground was fantasy. Below ground was the hard reality of hundreds of miles of electric cable, sewage lines, refrigeration pipes, and of course, scores of locker rooms, cafeterias, toilet facilities, and rest areas for the 6,200 employees who made the fantasy happen. There was still another half hour till quitting time, and Eddie needed a smoke. As soon as they got through the tunnel, Eddie pulled off the rabbit head. "I got something to do before I change," he said. "See you tomorrow." "Goodnight Eddie," Noreen said. "Thanks again for the video."

Eddie had picked up an old Brad Pitt movie at a flea market for two bucks. "My pleasure," he said. "I know how much you like him."

The entire Rabbit Hole was a No Smoking Zone, but Eddie knew a spot where he could light up out of view of the security cameras. He wound his way through a maze of ductwork, plopped down on the cool tile floor, and set the giant Rambo head down next to him. He lit a Marlboro Light, inhaled deeply, leaned back against a water pipe, and exhaled the smoke from his lungs with a long, slow breath.

It was his last.

The rope came from nowhere, cutting deep into his neck. He tried to scream, but nothing came out. He tried to inhale, but nothing came in.

Thirty-seven seconds later, Eddie Elkins, a.k.a. Edward Ellison, sex offender, child molester, and convicted pedophile, had his last conscious thought. God, I was so happy. Why now?

He knew better than to ask, why me?

 
 

CHAPTER 2

I wish I still smoked. Some occasions just seem to go better when I inhale deadly toxins. Occasions such as opening Joanie's monthly letter. But I gave up tobacco seven years ago, so I had to resort to other self inflicted pain.

</file>

<file= AmE06_L06>

In his dreams Crow held fast to Tess while she tried to wriggle out of his grasp. She wasn't attempting to escape out of malice or rejection, only because her curiosity had fastened on something bright and shiny and just out of reach. It was like trying to hold on to a squirming child, and eventually he had to concede her strength and let go.

Plus, she smelled awful.

He awakened to find his arms around the greyhound, who was not trying to evade his touch at all but had instead burrowed into him, exhaling bursts of fishy breath. A mere two nights since Tess had decamped, Esskay had usurped Tess's place in the bed, even using her pillow. Miata, less conflicted about the idea that she was a dog, was draped across the foot of the bed.

It was odd, being in Tess's house - and he always thought of it as her house, despite the work he had done on the rehab - without Tess. He felt off balance and tentative. But perhaps what he really felt was superfluous. The rational part of his mind understood that Tess was protecting him by concealing her whereabouts, but another part wondered if she had expected him to wilt when confronted by various authorities. "I don't want to put you into the position of lying," she had said Sunday when she packed her bag and left the house. They had been in regular phone contact since then, and she had let slip that she was less than a mile away, somewhere in North Baltimore. "I can almost see Stony Run Park from where I am," she said, then stopped abruptly. But Crow knew that meant one of the high-rises near Johns Hopkins.

What if the newspaper had reported that Edgar "Crow" Ransome was the actual go-between in this tale? Would he now be on the run, while Tess was kept in the dark? True, he had not ferreted out the connection between Lloyd and Youssef, much less gone out and plucked the kid off the streets of Baltimore and forced him to tell what he knew. Crow had found that part of the story a little appalling, in fact, an echo of nineteenth-century bounty hunters rounding up slaves. Whitney and Tess didn't have good sense sometimes. But none of this would have happened if he had not brought Lloyd home that first night.

Right now Tess probably wished this were so, although Crow thought the Howard County investigators had been given a promising lead, if they could just focus on it. Even if Lloyd couldn't or wouldn't say who had asked him to use Youssef's ATM card, the detectives now knew this wasn't a case of a man being murdered by a piece of would-be trade.

He glanced at the clock: 11:00 A.M. With Tess gone, he had honored his own night-owl nature instead of trying to fit his schedule onto Tess's days, playing weft to her warp. It had felt good, sleeping in, obeying his own body's needs for once.

The dogs, poor things, hadn't adjusted to the new routine. They needed to be walked immediately. He threw on his clothes, Esskay leaping around him in giddy circles while Miata just panted in excitement. They preferred Crow, for he was focused on them during the walk, while Tess's thoughts tended to drift and her pace to slacken. Eager and anxious, they burst through the door - and almost tripped over the huddled form of Lloyd Jupiter, who seemed to be trying to fold himself behind a yew-berry bush.

"You gotta help me, man. They killed Le'andro. They killed Le'andro."

"Le'andro was the one who was supposed to use the card, but he had a chance to get with this girl. So he gave me the card, told me I could have the money. But that was a secret, see? Between us. Because he had a direct order to do it his own self. So they think he done it. And if they think he done it - "

"Then they think he's the source in the newspaper article."

"Yeah." Lloyd picked up a rock and threw it as far as he could - which turned out to be pretty far. The kid could probably be a decent baseball player. But inner-city kids seldom played baseball. It took too much equipment, too many people, whereas basketball could be played with two guys on a cement playground covered with broken glass.

They were walking along Stony Run Creek, a narrow stream in a park known mainly to those whose houses bordered it. Esskay and Miata were compassionate dogs, but it was hard to explain to two walk-bound creatures that anything was more important than their twice-daily routine. They scampered ahead, towing Crow behind them as if he were a water-skier. Lloyd had refused to hold either leash on the grounds that he hated dogs. Crow had a hunch it was more fear than hate but didn't press the issue.

Along the way Lloyd's story had tumbled out quickly, as if trying to keep pace with the dogs. Le'andro was a low-level player in an East Side drug gang, one run by a man that Lloyd knew as Bennie Tep, although he admitted that probably wasn't his full and proper name. Still, he whispered it, as if it were a powerful thing in its own right, almost like an Orthodox Jew saying Yahweh or spelling G-d. And before he told Crow the name, he made him promise it was a secret-secret, one just between the two of them. "Not for your girlfriend or those damn reporters," he said. "They got Le'andro killed."

Crow didn't have the heart to point out that Lloyd had helped. In trying to protect his contact, he had only made him more vulnerable.

"But Le'andro was involved in dealing drugs, right?"

"Yeah."

"And you said he was shot to death on a corner where there have been disputes over territory. It could be unrelated."

"There ain't been no quarrels over that corner for at least three weeks. That thing was settled when Buck Jackson was locked up."

Three weeks didn't seem like a true truce in a drug war, but perhaps Crow didn't understand how time was calculated in Lloyd's world. Perhaps three weeks in East Baltimore was three years in Iraq.

"So if they killed Le'andro, you're off the hook. They think the informant is dead."

"Yeah, but your people" - Crow was charmed despite himself by the concept that he had people - "have to make it official, tell police that Le'andro was the one they talked to. That's the only way I can be safe."

"They can't, Lloyd. Not if they get hauled in front of a grand jury. Perjury is a big deal."

"Yeah," Lloyd said. "They got Lil' Kim on that, but Baretta and his parrot go free on murder. World is fucked up."

Crow couldn't disagree on that last point, although he remained as mystified as ever by Lloyd's cultural markers. A hip-hop star like Lil' Kim, sure, but how did he know about Baretta? Then again, even the poorest homes in Baltimore were usually wired with premium cable, and why not? Crow couldn't find it in him to begrudge the poor any luxury, no matter how shortsighted it seemed.

"Tess told me that the reporters who know your identity can invoke state shield laws," he said. "If brought before the grand jury, they'll testify that everything in the story is true, but they can't be compelled to say anything else. Not under state law. And Tess is trying to figure out a way to avoid being interviewed at all, because she has no privileged status. Maybe if police assume it was Le'andro ... "

But even ever-optimistic Crow couldn't see how this would happen. They would demand that Tess verify that Le'andro was the source, and Tess couldn't risk lying to local investigators when the stakes were so large.

"Lloyd, here's the thing: If you stay with me at the house, someone's going to put it together really fast that you're the source."

"Why?"

"Well, because, it's just that ... "

Lloyd laughed at his discomfiture. "I was just messin' with you, man. I know you got no black friends."

"That's not true. That's absolutely not true."

"Yeah? So who you hang with who's black?"

"Well, Tess's friend Jackie and her daughter. And I sometimes have lunch with Milton Kent, the talk-show host."

"On 1010 AM?" Lloyd looked impressed. The station was the only talk channel in Baltimore programmed for a black urban audience. Crow sometimes toggled between it and the all-conservative WBAL, marveling at the wide world of conspiratorial thinking.

"No, the NPR affiliate." Lloyd was no longer impressed. Meanwhile Crow was reeling inside his own head. Of course he had black friends, he must have black friends. There was, well, Seth, back at college. They had been tight. And some musicians, from his days as the lead singer of Poe White Trash. Certainly he had never made a conscious choice not to have black friends.

But this was Baltimore. Sixty-six percent black, and most of its white citizens lived inside an all-white bubble. Just walking through the park, Crow and Lloyd had drawn more than their share of odd looks from the stay-at-home mothers who speed-walked at midday. That's why he knew he had to get Lloyd out of Roland Park as soon as possible.

"Lloyd, you have to go to the police. Tell them the part about Le'andro, and they'll understand you've got nothing more to tell. Tess will do everything she can to keep her promise to you, but you can't expect her to go to jail to protect your identity."

"I never asked for this trouble. She made me do it. She was just looking out for her own self. Now I'm looking out for me."

This was all too true. Not particularly noble on Lloyd's part, but true. Tess, driven by insatiable curiosity as sure as Kipling's elephant was, had dragged Lloyd into this, not the other way around.

"But it's the only way you'll be safe. Once you talk to the police, they'll do everything they can to protect you. You can't get in trouble for giving a dead man's name."

"Yeah, right. You know how many witnesses been killed in my neighborhood? Even locked up, you're not safe. They want you, they get you. Besides, if I say Le'andro, they gonna go to Bennie Tep and he'll have me killed. Snitchin' don't play where I'm from."

They had come full circle, in the conversation and in the walk. Lloyd was right. Well, not right exactly, but logical in his own way. Outing himself would achieve nothing. Lloyd had already told everything he knew. True, he had omitted a key detail, Le'andro as middleman, but now that Le'andro was dead, Lloyd truly had nothing more to offer. Police would charge him and hold him. Worse, they might release him to streets where he, too, would be hit. Meanwhile Lloyd couldn't stay with Crow, because even Barney Fife would quickly ascertain the identity of the black teenager who had suddenly taken up residence in Tess Monaghan's North Side home. He needed to get away, somewhere safe.

Why not take a page out of Tess's playbook? If Crow and Lloyd disappeared, she could then say in all innocence that she didn't know where her source was. He'd have to work it out with Pat - no, let Tess explain to her father why Crow was on the lam and couldn't come to work. On the lam. He couldn't help finding the idea somewhat romantic. He and Lloyd would take off today, disappearing into the city. He'd need cash to avoid leaving any trail, but cash was never a problem. They would use disposable cell phones, the kind available from every convenience store now, to stay in touch with Tess; he had learned about that scam from watching HBO. No, no, he wouldn't call at all. If Tess's phones weren't already tapped, they would be soon.

</file>

<file= AmE06_L07>

"Congratulations, Cori. I believe you are the one to have melted the abominable snowman."
She laughed. "He melted me."
Max was headed straight for her, arms open, smile beaming, and she flew into his embrace.
"I thought you couldn't get back for a few more days!" she exclaimed as he twirled her.
He pulled back, gazing at her with a tease in his eyes. "I just spent ten hours on a plane with Alex Romero. If that doesn't prove I love you, nothing does."
Alex had headed back to his plane where the red-haired woman stood, looking at Alex with the same tender expression he gave her.
Max quickly introduced Cori to Jazz Adams, Alex's wife, then grabbed his bag, said good-bye, and guided Cori into the Peyton plane.
As she sat on the long sofa in the back, he stuck his head into the cockpit to talk to the pilots, most definitely requesting privacy in the cabin. Cori shivered with anticipation.
"If you're tired," she teased when he joined her, "you can sleep all the way to California."
He reached into his pocket, pulled out a deck of cards, and dropped them on her lap. "Yeah, right."
They buckled their seat belts as the engines whined. They kissed during takeoff, and cuddled all the way to cruising altitude. By the time they were above the clouds, Cori was all but begging Max to unbutton her blouse.
He stopped the foreplay and picked up the cards.
"All right," he said, opening the deck and clearing some space between them on the leather sofa. "Let's play."
"Okay," she said. "Though I think it's pretty obvious I'm willing to lose the first hand."
"Oh, we're not playing strip."
"Favors?"
He grinned. "Are you that desperate to get me naked and take liberties with me?"
"Yes."
That made him laugh. "I have a better game in mind."
"Answers?" What could he want to know that he didn't?
"Promises," he said, splitting the deck.
"That's a new one." She tucked her legs up and tapped the deck when he offered the cut. "When you win, do you elicit a promise from the other person?"
"No." He dealt, looking at her with eyes the color of sweet maple syrup. "You make one."
She smiled. "Really."
"Really. How's your hand?"
She had a pair of jacks, a four, a five, and a two. "Deuces wild?"
"If you have one, and want them to be." He looked at her. "And from the expression on your face, I'd say you have at least one and a few royals to boot."
She laughed. "How do you do that?" She took two cards, getting another jack and using everything she had to remain expressionless.
"Oh, boy," he said. "That's the face of a winning hand."
"Max!"
"All right, all right." He turned his cards over and folded. "Now you make me a promise. But be warned, I'll hold you to it."
Oh, the things she could promise. "I promise ... to make love to you tonight."
He barely nodded. "Your deal."
She won again. He patiently waited while she bit her lip and tried to come up with something clever. "I promise ... to take a bath with you when we get home."
He gave her a dubious look. "You're mind is really on sex, kid."
She reached over and squeezed his thigh. "Hey, I haven't seen you for a few days."
When he dealt again she couldn't read his reaction, of course. She had a lousy hand and her draw cards didn't help, so she folded and waited.
"I promise," he said slowly, "never to leave you again."
"Thank you, Max," she said mistily.
He dealt again, and won again.
This time he pushed the cards to the floor and folded her in his arms.
"I promise to spend the rest of my life playing cards with you. And while I'm at it, I promise to honor," he kissed her forehead. "Cherish," he kissed her nose. "And love you." He kissed her mouth so softly that she barely felt his lips. "Till death do us part."
The plane banked, but it might as well have been the world slipping sideways on its axis as Cori's heart shifted.
He smiled. "And by the look on your poker face, you like that idea."
She laughed, tunneling her hands into his hair for another kiss. "I like the idea."
Max laid back against the armrest, pulling her on top of him.
She kissed him again, tasting the sweetness that was Max, the familiar lips of the man she loved.
"So," he said, pulling her against him. "Is that a yes?"
"I thought we were playing promises, not answers." Closing her eyes, she reached down to the floor and grabbed a card. "Oh, look what I got. An ace."
He lifted his eyebrows. "Now you get to make a promise and get a favor."
"Lucky me. All right ... " She looked into his eyes. "Max Roper, I promise to love, honor, and cherish you till death do us part."
Their kiss was long, slow, and easy, as if they had forever. When it ended, she laid her head on his chest and listened to the steady beat of the heart of gold buried in his chest of steel.
"Don't forget your favor," he reminded her.
She smiled. "That's easy. My favor is that I get to sleep right here for the rest of my life," she whispered, patting his chest. "I love this spot. I love this heart. I love this man."
"I love you, too, kid." At the strange tightness in his voice, she looked up. He tried to smile, but that just forced out a tear from his eye.
"Aw, Max." She kissed the teardrop, then his lips. "You're just so emotional."
Epilogue 
L ucy hung up her office phone and inhaled a whiff of something amazing floating up from the kitchen. Johnny Christiano was working magic again. She stood, still smiling from Max's news. She'd never heard him sound so ... animated.
Eager to share the announcement with the little gathering downstairs, she followed the aroma of basil and the sound of laughter that accompanied it. Only a few of the Bullet Catchers were free to attend her little Christmas soiree, but those who had were definitely having fun.
"The West Coast office just checked in," she told them as she entered the living room, her gaze automatically seeking out Dan Gallagher next to the Christmas tree.
His green eyes sparkled. So, he already knew.
"How's Mad Max?" Chase asked, standing as she entered the room.
"Not mad at anyone," she said, taking the glass of champagne Raquel handed her. She smiled at her assistant. Just hours earlier, they'd finished her annual review and Raquel's eagerness to take her skills into the field had been the only point of heated discussion. The party, it seemed, had put Raquel back into a good mood. And something else would soon, too.
"He's doing a great job running the operations from Healdsburg," Chase said. "Stroke of genius to station him permanently in California, Luce."
It was that or lose him. She raised her glass. "Thank you, Chase."
"Strokes of genius are Lucy's specialty," Dan said, approaching the group, his gaze warming her. "Are we toasting the news?"
"We are," Lucy agreed, still holding her glass. "The sonogram says it's a boy and they are going to name him Maximillian Phillip Roper ... the fourth."
That elicited another round of laughter, cheers and an "awww" from Raquel.
Johnny trotted in from the kitchen, carrying a tray of simmering shellfish. "We call this vongole oreganate, which is baked clams to the rest of you." He placed the tray on the table and wiped his hands on his white apron. "Now, what am I missing?"
"Baby Roper is a boy," Raquel told him. "Max Junior."
Johnny grinned. "I knew they wouldn't name him Alex."
Dan chuckled. "That's a safe bet."
"What's the deal with that, Lucy?" Raquel asked, taking a clam. "I've heard so many different theories, but neither one of them will talk. Why do Alex and Max hate each other?"
"Has to be a woman," Johnny insisted. "Nothin' else could get under their skin like that."
"They're both married now," Raquel mused. "If it were a woman, they'd let it go."
"Then it's work." Chase looked at Lucy. "Has either one ever lost a principal?"
Lucy shook her head. "No Bullet Catcher has ever lost a principal."
"I'm tellin' you," Johnny said, popping a clam. "Gotta be a chick."
"A sports bet?" Chase said. "Max is a diehard Steelers fan."
"A family thing," Raquel suggested. "You know how Alex is about his Cuban clan."
"A woman," Johnny repeated. "Has to be."
Raquel turned to Dan, who'd been uncharacteristically quiet. "Do you know?"
He lifted one shoulder. "All I know is they had their first assignment together, not far from here in Westminster, and it didn't go well."
"Come on, Luce," Johnny prodded. "You know, don't you?"
"Juicy Miss Lucy knows everything," Dan said, sipping his drink and winking at her over the rim of his glass.
"Not everything." For instance, she didn't know what Dan Gallagher was thinking ... most of the time. And, God, that intrigued her. "But I do know what happened between Alex and Max."
The group erupted with more questions and she quieted them with a smile and one hand. "It was a woman."
"Told ya." Johnny nudged Raquel. "Go study history. From Adam on, they're the downfall of every great man."
Raquel rolled her eyes and looked at her boss. "Come on, Luce. Spill."
Lucy took a sip of her champagne and let the sweetness of the moment wash over her. This little group, her Bullet Catchers, were her family now. She absently touched the thin streak of white in her hair, a reminder that she once had another family. But this group was her grounding now. And she'd do anything for any of them.
Including keep secrets.
"What was her name?" Chase asked.
"I can't tell you exactly what happened ... or I'd have to kill you all."
Dan chuckled. "I know her name was Reagan."
"Really?" Raquel's eyes lit up. "Who was she?"
"She was a world-class beauty," Lucy said. "She had long, golden hair and eyes the color of that sky. She moved like poetry and, quite literally, stopped traffic. And, God in heaven, she knew it."
"They always do," Johnny muttered.
"Was she a principal?" Raquel prodded.
Lucy nodded. "They both were assigned to her, because she was very high profile and needed round-the-clock protection. Suffice it to say, Max Roper approached the assignment with detachment and logic, and Alex Romero displayed his usual passion and emotion." She shrugged. "They clashed."
"How?"
"They were both madly in love with her," Lucy said. "But she trotted off with another man."
"No!" Raquel said.
"And," Lucy added, "she took Best of Show that year."
They stared at her.
"A dog?" Johnny choked.
She almost didn't hear the soft beep of her house phone over their roar of laughter. She picked up the receiver, recognizing the number. Grigori Nyekovic, former KGB and current multimillionaire. A brilliant double agent and longtime friend.
"Raquel," Lucy said, holding the phone to her. "Could you handle this, please?"
As Raquel left the room, Lucy looked at Dan. "She has no idea what's about to hit her," she said under her breath.
"Ms. Machiavelli, up to her old tricks again," he said, coming closer.
She tucked that strand of hair behind her ear. This is what she lived for, these days. The orchestration of challenges. The vicarious thrills. The pleasure of managing the lives of the men and women who beat the world's bad guys.
"Watch your back," she warned in a friendly whisper, locking on his Irish eyes. "It'll happen to you when you least expect it."
He shot her his most endearing crooked smile. "I can't wait, Juice."
"Neither can I, Danny boy. Neither can I."

</file>

<file= AmE06_L08>

"What exactly do you do all day?"

"I am in the process of determining what surgical procedures will best benefit our patients at various stages of their gradual progress. A positive self-image is vital to complete recovery."

He was annoying the hell out of me, and I knew I was doing a poor job of hiding it. Somehow, I didn't much care. "You mean nose jobs? Face lifts?"

He winced. "I prefer to use the approved medical terminology, but in essence, yes. Now why don't you run along and find Dr. Skiller? I need to call my attorney to discuss potential liability."

I stood up. "I'll use the opportunity to question her about what took place after the meeting. I am under no circumstances going undercover, Dr. Stonebridge. If you need a replacement for Miss Foss, I suggest you try a temp agency."

Fuming, I left him by the fountain and headed for the pool area to find an entrance. The man who'd been cleaning the pool had vanished. Now a muscular young man with gleaming blond hair was swimming laps as if he were training for the Olympics. A patient, I surmised, but if he was all that famous, it escaped me. Then again, I don't have cable and I rarely make it to the movies in Farberville. Maybe he'd won an Oscar or an Emmy or whatever people won these days. Probably not the Kentucky Derby.

I opened French doors and went down a corridor in the direction of the front of the building. A uniformed maid carrying an armload of towels hurried by without acknowledging me. I recognized the man who'd been guarding the gate during construction. He was now clad in neat white pants and a shirt, and when he saw me, disappeared around a corner. No one was crying or howling in a distant room. No bedpans clattered to the floor; no querulous voices complained. It was all very civilized for a loony bin, if that's what it was.

When I arrived in the reception room, the desk was unattended. More maids were moving about in one of the wings, presumably where the patients were battling demons in their exquisitely decorated suites. I drummed my fingers on the desk while I tried to decide what to do - which would not include filing or busywork. I already had a job, and more importantly, a date later in the day. What's more, I suspected that if I called Harve to squawk, I'd be told that he'd gone fishing for the weekend.

I was considering giving it a shot when Dr. Skiller appeared from an office behind the desk.

"So it's you," she said flatly.

Nothing like a warm greeting to liven up my day.

8

Ruby Bee was keeping an eye on Tekeella Buchanon, who was draped all over a potbellied truck driver in one of the booths. As long as they didn't start fooling around with buttons and zippers, she had no call to interfere. 'Course it might get interesting if Tekeella's boyfriend showed up, but last she'd heard, he was doing thirty days at the county jail for assault. She couldn't remember when she'd heard it, though.

She felt a flicker of alarm as the door opened and sunlight splashed onto the dance floor. Her alarm turned to disdain as Estelle wobbled in on four-inch heels, all gussied up like she was going to church. However, she held her tongue as Estelle sat down on her customary stool and took a Tupperware container out of a plastic bag.

They looked at each other for an uncomfortable minute, then Rudy Bee broke down and said, "You want something?"

"I made a batch of guacamole dip for your guests out back," said Estelle. "I just happened to have some avocados that were getting mushy."

Ruby Bee sniffed. "Oh, really? Last time I looked, the SuperSaver didn't have any avocados."

"I was shopping in Farberville, if you must know. Kmart was having a sale on purses, and I've been looking for a new one to go with my navy dress. Afterward, I stopped at a grocery store to pick up a few things."

"Like avocados," Ruby Bee said, nodding sagely.

Estelle chewed on her lip. "That's right. I found a recipe in a magazine for a chicken dish that called for avocados and black olives and salsa. The SuperSaver doesn't carry fancy things like that."

"So how did this chicken dish turn out?"

"I changed my mind about making it. I couldn't think of anything else to do with the avocados, so I made some guacamole. Do I need your permission to take it out back?"

Ruby Bee moved down the bar and began to wash mugs in the sink. "Doesn't matter to me, but I'm kinda surprised that you'd want to have anything to do with those foreigners. You want to leave your purse behind the bar in case they're pickpockets and thieves?"

"I don't know why you'd say such a thing, Rubella Belinda Hanks!"

"I'm sure they'll be forever beholden to you for your Christian generosity. The pope'll be impressed, too."

"If you'd druther, I can just leave," Estelle said, heating up.

"Pay no attention to me. Most likely they'll be thrilled out of their skins to get a bowl of mushy avocados. I'm surprised you didn't bring along a box of old underwear and rusty cans of tomato soup and pinto beans."

Estelle quivered, then composed herself. "I don't know what you want from me, Ruby Bee. I came here to make amends, but I ain't gonna grovel."

"Well, I ain't gonna grovel, neither," retorted Ruby Bee.

"It's just that ... well, it's complicated. If you don't mind, I'll pour myself a glass of sherry." When Ruby Bee shrugged, she reached behind the bar and found her bottle. "The thing is, back when I was living in Little Rock and singing at the lounge, there was this Italian fellow. I don't want to bore you with the details, so all I'm gonna say is that it didn't work out. I ended up mistrusting foreigners. I know those folks out back ain't Italians, but it's hard for me to feel comfortable about them."

Ruby Bee tossed the dishrag into the sink and went down to the end of the bar. "So tell me about him. Was he good-looking?"

"He had this really thick hair that was blacker than a mule skinner's molar," Estelle said dreamily. "He always brought me flowers on Saturday night. Not daisies, but big bouquets of roses tied with ribbons. I have to admit I was smitten with him, in spite of his annoying habit of sucking on his teeth. One night we drove out to a bluff overlooking the river and he told me all about his house in Italy and his wife, who'd died of some kind of mysterious ailment when she was only twenty-two."

"And then ... ?" Ruby Bee prompted her.

The ensuing conversation managed to undo a week's worth of animosity.

 

"I am not here as a replacement receptionist," I said to Brenda Skiller. "This is a murder investigation. My understanding is that Molly Foss was drowned in a fountain out back. Would you please tell me what you did after the staff meeting was over?"

"Sheriff Dorfer, if that's his name, agreed that you would ask your questions without causing undue alarm," she said coolly. "You cannot do so if you insist on attempting to bully everyone. I suggest you take several deep, cleansing breaths before you continue."

I couldn't quite bring myself to drop into a lotus position and focus on my navel. "I don't like this any more than you do, but we need to get it resolved quickly. What did you do after the staff meeting?"

She assessed me with no visible signs of warmth. "I agree with you that this must be dealt with expeditiously. After the meeting adjourned, I needed to pick up some invoices in the office. Miss Foss was here. I found what I needed and retired to my room. She and I did not speak."

"Didn't she announce at the end of the staff meeting that she was going home?"

"She did, but she lingered at her desk."

"Do you have any idea why?" I asked.

"Why would I? She was vapid, silly, and keenly aware of the effect she had on all the males in a quarter-mile radius. She couldn't master the computer or put files in the appropriate slots, but she could wiggle her ass and wink like a local beauty pageant queen. I found her behavior disgusting."

It didn't sound as if Brenda Skiller and Molly Foss shared tuna sandwiches and fashion tips at lunch. I tried again. "What time was this?"

"Eight-thirty or so. As I said, I took the invoices and left her here. I went to my office, did some work, and finished up at eleven. Dr. Stonebridge knocked on my door shortly after four o'clock this morning to tell me what happened. I dressed and waited with him in the garden for the authorities."

I perched on the edge of the desk. "Could Molly have been meeting someone?"

"I have no idea. When I last saw her, she wasn't really doing anything, just fiddling with the pens and paper clips. She seemed a little bit nervous. I did wonder briefly if she was waiting for Walter. He must have seemed exotic in comparison to her husband."

"You're quite sure it couldn't have been a patient?" I asked, thinking of the blond hulk I'd seen swimming laps.

"Absolutely not. They are all sedated by nine each night. We cannot have them wandering around the facility. We would be liable if something happened to one of them. Randall - Dr. Zumi - will be happy to provide you with the details of their medication."

I tossed this around for a moment. "Then you agree that either someone from outside managed to get over or under the fence, despite the guard and the dog, or that one of the employees is responsible?"

"I see no reason to speculate," Brenda said. "My only concern is for our patients, who will be following their schedules for individual and small group therapy, physical activity, meditation, and meals. Although I suspect you're no more competent than Miss Foss, you must assume her duties in order not to alarm them."

"Your cash cows," I said.

"In a manner of speaking, yes. You'll find a white coat in the office. Please wear it while you're here." She picked up a clipboard and thrust it at me. "Here is a list of those expected to require admittance during the day. They must identify themselves before you push the button to open the gate. Do not attempt to file anything or use the computer. Miss Foss left a muddle that will take me days to undo. If any of the patients ask about her, tell them she was called away for a family crisis."

"Wait a minute," I said as she headed down the hall. She did not look back as she disappeared. I was not pleased with her assumption that I would put on a white coat and guard the gate, but I realized I might have an opportunity to find out something about what was happening inside the compound. Thus far it was creepy, to put it mildly. The two doctors I'd encountered were more worried about maintaining a tranquil setting than they were about the brutal death of Molly Foss. Dr. Stonebridge was on the phone to his lawyer to discuss liability. Dr. Skiller was no doubt making sure the latest delivery of fresh vegetables was one hundred percent organic. Clearly, I needed to talk to Dr. Zumi and the personal trainer before I tackled the patients and the terrified staff of Mexicans - none of whom spoke English. I wasn't fond of the current proprietor of the Dairee Dee-Lishus, but I was very sorry he was not available to translate. Presuming he would.

</file>

<file= AmE06_L09>

CHAPTER
1

She nearly killed an innocent man.

* * *

Creighton "Charley" Bondurant drove carefully because his life depended on it. Latigo Canyon was mile after mile of neck-wrenching, hairpin twists. Charley had no use for government meddlers but the 15 mph signs posted along the road were smart.

He lived ten miles up from Kanan Dume Road, on a four-acre remnant of the ranch his grandfather had owned during Coolidge's time. All those Arabians and Tennessee walkers and the mules Grandpa kept around because he liked the creatures' spirit. Charley had grown up with families like his. No-nonsense ranchers, a few rich folk who were still okay when they came up to ride on weekends. Now all you had were rich pretenders.

Diabetic and rheumatoid and depressed, Charley lived in a two-room cabin with a view of oak-covered crests and the ocean beyond. Sixty-eight, never married. Poor excuse for a man, he'd scold himself on nights when the medicines mixed with the beer and his mood sank low.

On happier days, he pretended to be an old cowboy.

This morning, he was somewhere between those extremes. His bunions hurt like hell. Two horses had died last winter and he was down to three skinny white mares and a half-blind sheepdog. Feed and hay bills ate up most of his Social Security. But the nights had been warm for October, and he hadn't dreamed bad and his bones felt okay.

It was hay that got him up at seven that morning, rolling out of bed, gulping coffee, chewing on a stale sweet roll, to hell with his blood sugar. A little time-out to get the internal plumbing going and by eight he was dressed and starting up the pickup.

Coasting in neutral down the dirt road that fed to Latigo, he looked both ways a couple of times, cleared the crust from his eyes, shifted into first, and rolled down. The Topanga Feed Bin was a twenty-minute ride south and he figured to stop along the way at the Malibu Stop & Shop for a few six-packs, a tin of Skoal, and some Pringles.

Nice morning, a big old blue sky with just a few clouds from the east, sweet air blowing up from the Pacific. Switching on his eight-track, he listened to Ray Price and drove slow enough to stop for deer. Not too many of the pests before dark but you never knew what to expect up in the mountains.

The naked girl jumped out at him a lot faster than any deer.

Eyes full of terror, mouth stretched so wide Charley swore he could see her tonsils.

She ran across the road, straight in the path of his truck, hair blowing wild, waving her arms.

Stomping the brake pedal hard, Charley felt the pickup lurch, wobble, and sway. Then the sharp skid to the left, straight at the battered guardrail that separated him from a thousand foot of nothing.

Hurtling toward blue sky.

He kept hitting the brake. Kept flying. Said his prayers and opened the door and prepared to bail.

His damn shirt stuck on the door handle. Eternity looked real close. What a stupid way to go!

Hands ripping at his shirt fabric, mouth working in a combination of curses and benedictions, Charley's gnarled body tightened, his legs turned to iron bars, and his sore foot pressed that brake pedal down to the damn floorboard.

The truck kept going, fishtailed, slid, spattered gravel.

Shuddered. Rolled. Bumped the guard.

Charley could hear the rail groan.

The truck stopped.

Charley freed his shirt and got out. His chest was tight and he couldn't suck any breath into his lungs. Wouldn't that be the shits: spared a free fall to oblivion only to drop dead of a damned heart attack.

He gasped and swallowed air, felt his field of vision grow black and braced himself against the truck. The chassis creaked and Charley jumped back, felt himself going down again.

A scream pierced the morning. Charley opened his eyes and straightened and saw the girl. Red marks around her wrists and ankles. Bruises around her neck.

Beautiful young body, those healthy knockers bobbing as she came running toward him -  sinful to think like that, she was scared, but with knockers like that what else was there to notice?

She kept coming, arms wide, like she wanted Charley to hold her.

But screaming, those wild eyes, he wasn't sure what to do.

First time in a long time he'd been this close to bare female flesh.

He forgot about the knockers, nothing sexy about this. She was a kid, young enough to be his daughter. Granddaughter.

Those marks on her wrists and ankles, around her neck.

She screamed again.

"Ohgodohgoohgod."

She was right up to him, now, yellow hair whipping his face. He could smell the fear on her. See the goose bumps on her pretty tan shoulders.

"Help me!"

Poor kid was shivering.

Charley held her.
CHAPTER
2

L.A.'s where you end up when you have nowhere else to go.

A long time ago I'd driven west from Missouri, a sixteen-year-old high school graduate armed with a head full of desperation and a partial academic scholarship to the U.

Only son of a moody, hard drinker and a chronic depressive. Nothing to keep me in the flatlands.

Living like a pauper on work-study and occasional guitar gigs in wedding bands, I managed to get educated. Made some money as a psychologist, and a lot more from lucky investments. Got The House In The Hills.

Relationships were another story, but that would've been true no matter where I lived.

Back when I treated children, I routinely took histories from parents and learned what family life could be like in L.A. People packing up and moving every year or two, the surrender to impulse, the death of domestic ritual.

Many of the patients I saw lived in sun-baked tracts with no other kids nearby and spent hours each day being bused to and from beige corrals that claimed to be schools. Long, electronic nights were bleached by cathode and thump-thumped by the current angry music. Bedroom windows looked out to hazy miles of neighborhoods that couldn't really be called that.

Lots of imaginary friends in L.A. That, I supposed, was inevitable. It's a company town and the product is fantasy.

The city kills grass with red carpets, worships fame for its own sake, demolishes landmarks with glee because the high-stakes game is reinvention. Show up at your favorite restaurant and you're likely to find a sign trumpeting failure and the windows covered with brown paper. Phone a friend and get a disconnected number.

No Forwarding. It could be the municipal motto.

You can be gone in L.A. for a long time before anyone considers it a problem.

* * *

When Michaela Brand and Dylan Meserve went missing, no one seemed to notice.

Michaela's mother was a former truck-stop cashier living with an oxygen tank in Phoenix. Her father was unknown, probably one of the teamsters Maureen Brand had entertained over the years. Michaela had left Arizona to get away from the smothering heat, gray shrubs, air that never moved, no one caring about The Dream.

She rarely called her mother. The hiss of Maureen's tank, Maureen's sagging body, ragged cough, and emphysemic eyes drove her nuts. No room for any of that in Michaela's L.A. head.

Dylan Meserve's mother was long dead from an undiagnosed degenerative neuromuscular disease. His father was a Brooklyn-based alto sax player who'd never wanted a rug rat in the first place and had died of an overdose five years ago.

Michaela and Dylan were gorgeous and young and thin and had come to L.A. for the obvious reason.

By day, he sold shoes at a Foot Locker in Brentwood. She was a lunch waitress at a pseudo-trattoria on the east end of Beverly Hills.

They'd met at the PlayHouse, taking an Inner Drama seminar from Nora Dowd.

The last time anyone had seen them was on a Monday night, just after ten p.m., leaving the acting workshop together. They'd worked their butts off on a scene from Simpatico. Neither really got what Sam Shepard was aiming for but the play had plenty of juicy parts, all that screaming. Nora Dowd had urged them to inject themselves in the scene, smell the horseshit, open themselves up to the pain and the hopelessness.

Both of them felt they'd delivered. Dylan's Vinnie had been perfectly wild and crazy and dangerous, and Michaela's Rosie was a classy woman of mystery.

Nora Dowd had seemed okay with the performance, especially Dylan's contribution.

That frosted Michaela a bit but she wasn't surprised.

Watching Nora go off on one of those speeches about right brain - left brain. Talking more to herself than to anyone else.

The PlayHouse's front room was set up like a theater, with a stage and folding chairs. The only time it got used was for seminars.

Lots of seminars, no shortage of students. One of Nora's alumni, a former exotic dancer named April Lange, had scored a role on a sitcom on the WB. An autographed picture of April used to hang in the entry before someone took it down. Blond, shiny-eyed, vaguely predatory. Michaela used to think: Why her?

Then again, maybe it was a good sign. If it could happen to April, it could happen to anyone.

Dylan and Michaela lived in single-room studio apartments, his on Overland, in Culver City, hers on Holt Avenue, south of Pico. Both their cribs were tiny, dark, ground-floor units, pretty much dumps. This was L.A., where rent could crush you and day jobs barely covered the basics and it was hard, sometimes, not to get depressed.

After they didn't show up at work for two days running, their respective employers fired them.

And that was the extent of it.
CHAPTER
3

I heard about it the way most everyone else did: third story on the evening news, right after the trial of a hip-hop star accused of assault and floods in Indonesia.

I was eating a solitary dinner and half listening to the broadcast. This one caught my attention because I gravitate toward local crime stories.

Couple abducted at gunpoint, found naked and dehydrated in the hills of Malibu. I played with the remote but no other broadcast added details.

The following morning, the Times filled in a bit more: a pair of acting students had left a nighttime class in West L.A. and driven east in her car to the young woman's apartment in the Pico-Robertson district. Waiting at a red light at Sherbourne and Pico, they'd been carjacked by a masked gunman who stashed them both in the trunk and drove for more than an hour.

When the car stopped and the trunk popped, the couple found themselves in pitch darkness, somewhere "out in the country." The spot was later identified as "Latigo Canyon, in the hills of Malibu."

The carjacker forced them to stumble down a steep hillside to a densely wooded area, where the young woman tied up the young man at gunpoint and was subsequently bound herself. Sexual assault was implied but not specified. The assailant was described as "white, medium height, and stocky, thirty to forty, with a Southern accent."

Malibu was county territory, sheriff's jurisdiction. The crime had taken place fifty miles from LASD headquarters, but violent whodunits were handled by major crimes detectives and anyone with information was requested to phone downtown.

A few years back, when Robin and I were rebuilding the house in the hills, we'd rented a place on the beach in western Malibu. The two of us had explored the sinuous canyons and silent gullies on the land side of Pacific Coast Highway, hiked the oak-bearded crests that peaked above the ocean.

I remembered Latigo Canyon as corkscrew roads and snakes and red-tailed hawks. Though it took a while to get above civilization, the reward was worth the effort: a wonderful, warm nothingness.

</file>

<file= AmE06_L10>

"I mean if you put a man in jail or execute him, he might
have a family that's left to starve . . . or worse. Half the children living on the streets have a father in jail and a mother
who died after selling herself too many times. Now do you
still feel like grinning?"
"No, sir," Gino replied, properly chastened.
"Good. We're going to visit the Ruoccos. Your job is to
translate if they say anything in Italian and to help me make
sure they answer all my questions."
"Yes, sir," he said.
Gino followed him respectfully for the short distance to
Mama's Restaurant. Frank noticed the young men loitering
on the street corners. Sarah was right, they'd make sure the
Irish didn't get very far if they tried to start another riot.
None of them would meet Frank's gaze, and he walked into
Mama's unchallenged, with Gino on his heels.
The aroma of garlic and tomatoes washed over them,
making Frank's stomach clench with longing. The dining
room was starting to fill up, and Frank saw Joe and Lorenzo
moving through the room with trays held aloft, delivering
plates heaped with mouth-watering food to the diners.
"Looks like we came at a bad time," Gino observed.
"They're all busy."
"That's good," Frank pointed out. "The rest of the family won't have time to interfere when we question our suspects."
When Joe's tray was empty, he looked over to see who had
come in. The welcoming smile froze on his handsome face.
He called something to Lorenzo, who frowned when he saw
the cops. Lorenzo hurried back into the kitchen as Joe made
his way across the room to meet them.
"What do you want?" he demanded.
"We've got a few questions for some members of your
family," Frank said.
"It's suppertime. We are very busy. Come back tomorrow."
"We don't want to come back tomorrow. We want to ask
our questions right now," Frank informed him with a glare
that drained the antagonism right out of him. "Where's
Antonio?"
"In . . . in the kitchen," Joe admitted reluctantly. "He's
helping Mama."
"Tell him we need to see him." Frank glanced around the
noisy room. "And we'll need someplace private to talk to
him, unless you want everybody here to know what we're
asking him about."
Joe looked like he wanted to punch somebody, but he
said, "I'll tell him to take you upstairs. I'll get him."
The people in the restaurant were starting to notice
Frank and Gino, and the noise level in the room lessened
considerably as people stopped conversing and started whispering and staring. Frank gave them his best effort at intimidation, and soon most of them were at least pretending
to mind their own business.
"Here he comes," Gino said softly, and Frank looked
over. Antonio had come out of the kitchen, pulling off a
sauce-stained apron. He glanced around the room nervously
and found to his horror that everyone was staring at him.
Then he spotted Frank and Gino near the front door, and
paled noticeably. He motioned for them to join him at the
stairway door. By the time they got there, he'd opened the
door and started up the stairs. They followed, closing the door
decisively behind them.
Antonio stopped at the first landing on the second floor,
and led them down a short hallway into a family parlor.
"What do you want with me?" Antonio asked before they
were even in the room. "I don't know anything."
"I'm sure you know a lot of things, Antonio," Frank said,
taking stock of the room. The furniture was comfortably
shabby. A shawl hung over the back of a chair and a pair of
slippers had been left in front of the sofa. A pillow rested at
one end of the sofa, and a blanket had been folded up and
laid on top of it, as if someone had been sleeping there. "Tell
me how you met Nainsi, Antonio," Frank said.
Antonio frowned. "Why does that matter now?"
"Everything matters now," Frank snapped. "Answer my
question."
"I . . . At a dance. I used to go to the dance houses with
my brother, and I met her there."
"When was this?"
He frowned, as if trying to remember exactly. "August.
I remember because it was right after Valentina's birthday."
"That's a lie, Antonio," Frank moving toward him. "I
don't like people who lie to me."
"It's the truth, I swear," Antonio cried, his voice shrill
and his eyes wide with fright. He flinched and tried to cover
his face when Frank raised his hand, but he only used it to
push the boy down onto a chair.
"Then why did Nainsi tell her friends she met you in the
spring?"
"I don't know," he claimed, looking up at Frank in desperation. "She couldn't have told them that. I didn't even
know who she was back then."
"It's true," a voice said from the doorway behind them.
They all turned to see Maria Ruocco standing there. Frank
had thought Patrizia was the matriarch of this family, the
formidable one they'd have to outsmart, but seeing Maria
right now, he reconsidered. For such a small, plain woman,
she radiated an amazing amount of authority.
"Excuse me, Mrs. Ruocco," Frank said politely, in deference to the power he sensed in her. "But how would you
know such a thing?"
"Because Antonio never went to the dance houses before
that. Mama wouldn't allow it until . . . until Joe said it was
time he started acting like a man."
"When was Valentina's birthday?" Frank asked her.
"August fifteenth."
This didn't make sense. Nainsi's friends knew about
Antonio months before that. "Maybe he was sneaking out so
his mama didn't know," Frank suggested, giving Antonio
another glare.
"No, I swear! Maria, tell them. I never went out at night
before that."
"He would not have dared disobey Mama," Maria confirmed. "What does it matter now, anyway?"
"Because," Frank said, still respectful to her, "if Antonio
wasn't the baby's father, he had a good reason for killing
Nainsi."
"I wasn't even here when she died," Antonio reminded
him. "Joe took me to see Uncle Ugo and then . . . We were
with him all night!"
"Why did you go see Ugo?" Frank asked. "Did you want
him to get rid of your wife for you?"
"No! I mean . . . I don't know why we went. It was Joe's
idea. He said Ugo would know what to do."
"Antonio," Maria snapped.
"Thank you for your help, Mrs. Ruocco," Frank said,
moving toward her in a slightly menacing manner that
forced her to step back until she was out in the hallway.
"We'll send for you if we need you again." He closed the
door in her surprised face. Then he motioned for Gino to
come over to guard the door and turned his attention back
to Antonio.
"What did Joe want Uncle Ugo to do?" he asked when he
was standing over the boy again.
"He didn't want him to do anything," he claimed. "Joe just
told him that Nainsi had the baby and I wasn't the father."
"What did Ugo say?"
Antonio winced at the memory. "He said I was stupid to
trust a whore, and I got what I deserved. He said a lot of
things like that. I don't remember all of it. He gave me
some whiskey to drink, and we sat there for a long time,
drinking. He and Joe were talking, but I was just drinking.
I don't remember much after that. Next thing I know, I
wake up right there." He pointed at the sofa.
"That's convenient," Frank observed. "You don't remember what you did for the rest of the night?"
"No, I don't!"
"Then for all you know, you came home, went up to your
bedroom, and put a pillow over Nainsi's face and smothered
her."
"I didn't! Why would I?" he cried.
"A lot of reasons. Because you didn't like being made
a fool of by a cheap little mickey bitch. Because you didn't
like being stuck raising somebody else's bastard. Because
you didn't want a wife who'd lift her skirts for any man who
gave her a smile or bought her a drink."
The boy lunged to his feet with a roar of outrage, but
Frank grabbed his shoulders and slammed him back down
into the chair.
"Isn't that what happened?" Frank challenged. "Did she
do it for just a smile, or did she make you buy her a drink
first?"
Antonio's eyes glowed with loathing, and his handsome
face twisted with rage. "It wasn't like that!"
"Wasn't it?" Frank demanded. "Did she even tell you her
name first?"
"I knew her name!"
"Did you know she was carrying somebody else's baby?"
That stopped him cold. Frank watched the rage drain out
of him, and he was a boy again. "She said . . . she said it was
her first time."
"Of course she did."
"She said she liked me," he remembered sadly.
"Maybe she did," Frank allowed. "She was looking for a
husband, so she would have wanted somebody she could live
with."
Antonio grimaced. "She didn't like me after we got married though. She didn't even want me in her bed. She said
she was sick from the baby, and didn't want me to touch
her. She was mean to everybody else, too. Mama hated her.
Lorenzo said I never should've married her."
"No one would blame you for killing a woman like that,
Antonio," Frank said reasonably. "They'd probably throw
you a parade."
The boy's eyes filled with tears. "I wish I had killed her.
Nobody would laugh at me then. They wouldn't say I was
stupid and weak for getting tricked like that."
His shoulders started to shake and the tears ran down
his cheeks. Frank had to look away. At least he could
be pretty sure Antonio hadn't killed Nainsi. He was too
young and still too innocent to hide such a grievous sin.
He might've been too drunk to remember, but if he'd been
that drunk, he wouldn't have been able to overpower the
girl.
"Go back downstairs and tell your brother Joe to come
up to see me," Frank said in disgust.
Antonio looked at him in surprise, scrubbing the tears
from his face with his palms. "Joe? Why do you want to see
Joe?"
"Because I do. Now go get him before I decide to take
the easy way out and lock you up."
Antonio sprang to his feet and rushed out, practically
shoving Gino aside as he jerked open the door and ducked
through it. Maria Ruocco still stood in the hallway outside.
She watched Antonio race away, then turned back and came
to the doorway again.
"He didn't kill the girl," she said urgently. "He doesn't
have it in him."
"Then he doesn't have anything to worry about," Frank
said. "Mrs. Ruocco, would you answer a few questions for
me?"
She stiffened in silent resistance, but she lifted her chin
and said, "I don't know what I can tell you."
"You and your husband sleep upstairs in the room across
from where Nainsi died, don't you?"
"Yes." She folded her hands tightly at her waist, offering
nothing more.
"Did you sleep there the night Nainsi died?"
"Of course. I always sleep there."
"When was the last time you saw Nainsi?"
She frowned, her heavy brows knitting as she considered
the question. "I'm not sure. I . . . helped her with the baby
for a while . . . after Mrs. Brandt left. Mama said Nainsi
could stay until she was recovered."
"I guess Nainsi must have been upset about having to
leave with her baby," Frank suggested.
She took a moment before answering this question, too.
"No, she wasn't. She . . . she thought Mama would let her
stay. She was married to Antonio, and she thought we would
have to let her stay."

</file>

<file= AmE06_L11>

Please don't let it be poisoned, she thought, and
stick some innocent tourist on the lower deck.
Angry at losing her sleek little pearl-handled blade, Natalija
yelped and body-slammed Lacey, throwing both of them to the
deck with a resounding thud. "What are you doing, you idiot?"
Lacey screamed. "Vic! Where are you?"
"You won't tell me where the corset is, so I'm going to kill you!
With my bare hands!" Natalija had a mad gleam in her eyes and
she certainly looked like she could do the job. But they were both
momentarily distracted by the sound of Vic's voice somewhere on
the lower deck.
"Lacey! What the hell  - ? Where are you?"
"Vic! Up here! Help!" Lacey managed to shout while trying to
roll away from Natalija. The madwoman was trying to climb on
top of Lacey and grab her throat.
Vic came racing up the stairs and slammed head on into Kepelov, running down the deck toward the two women. At least
Lacey thought it was Kepelov from her vantage point on her back
with Natalija clawing at her. Then suddenly the two men were
trading punches and one of them fell to the floor. He staggered
back up and they went at it again, and then they were both rolling
on the deck, fists thrashing furiously.
Lacey threw Natalija off long enough to scoot away from her
and back up against the railing. She tried not to worry about Vic:
He apparently had his hands full too. What on earth was Kepelov
doing here? Natalija dived for Lacey's throat again. Lacey pried
her hands from her throat and bit one as hard as she could, then she
kicked her off and rolled away. Natalija slunk across the deck,
sucking her wounded finger.
"Lying bitch!" Natalija cried. "I'm going to kill you."
Lacey managed to grab onto the railing and pull herself up by
one hand, directly above the huge red paddle wheel steadily slapping the water with its long, flat blades. The roar was deafening.
Dazed, Lacey shook her head. Vic seemed to be punching the
hell out of Kepelov, but Kepelov was still standing. Natalija coiled
like a cobra, nursing her injured hand, eyeing Lacey venomously.
Lacey leaned back against the railing and tried to catch her breath.
She watched Natalija warily as the woman crouched across the
deck from her.
Lacey looked over at Vic. He shoved an exhausted Kepelov to
the deck and then raised his head to look at her. He shouted.
"Lacey! Look out!"
Lacey glanced down. Natalija uncoiled and sprang at her in a
running leap. Somewhere nearby a woman screamed. Lacey instinctively hit the deck and clung to the bottom railing. She saw
sudden fear in Natalija's eyes as the woman realized too late she
had miscalculated, that a body in motion stays in motion. Natalija
Krumina hurled herself over the railing where Lacey had just
stood, clawing at it, unable to catch herself. She screamed as she
fell, and the heavy thud as her body hit one hard red paddle and
then the next seemed to repeat and repeat, until the paddle wheel
plowed her down, under the muddy waters of the Mississippi, and
she disappeared beneath the riverboat's churning wake. Her
screams stopped, but the sound echoed on in Lacey's head.
Vic abandoned Kepelov and ran to Lacey, lifting her up and
holding her so hard she could hardly breathe. "My God, Lacey, I
think my heart stopped when she came at you," he whispered. He
held her tight as they leaned over the railing to look for the woman
in the river. They never saw her again.
Kepelov's nose and lip were bleeding and his clothes were torn
and dirty, Lacey saw as he stumbled up to them. Vic lifted a weary
fist at him, but he held up his hands in surrender. "No more, no
more! I wasn't going to hurt her. Not Smithsonian," he said. He
turned back to Vic. "Why did you stop me, Donovan? I was after
that scheming bitch Natalija Krumina!" He pointed at the river.
"She's the one who shot me." Vic unclenched his fist and clasped
Kepelov's shoulder.
Trujillo strolled around the corner of the deck, a drink in his
hand and a pretty blonde on his arm. He stopped dead in his tracks.
"Oh, man! What did I miss? Mac's gonna kill me, isn't he?"
Chapter 39

Lacey didn't quite know why she invited everyone, including Kepelov and Griffin and Stella and Trujillo, to the Passion Flowers
boutique on Royal Street the next day.
Maybe she wanted a sense of symmetry for her story, or possibly to suppress the men's raging testosterone levels in that excessively girly dress shop, or maybe she was tired of being stalked
and this might end it once and for all. But she invited them all,
even the jewel thief and the ex-spy. Turtledove's cousins tracked
them down, and they promised to behave, even when she explained over and over that not only was there no Fabergé egg to
find, there might very well be nothing at all. She took the precaution of enlisting Turtledove and his cousins to stand guard over the
Russian and the Brit, not to mention the excitable Stella, while
Lacey made one last search for the corset.
Nicole Demaine was gracious and pleased that her shop would
merit a prominent mention in a story that might go around the
country, even the world. With some gravity she read aloud the note
from the crypt for the assembled group, while Trujillo took photographs. And on behalf of her mother, Madeline Demaine, she was
delighted to turn over to Lacey Smithsonian and The Eye Street
Observer Lacey's prime suspect: the antique dressmaker's dummy
that had been on display in her shop for decades.
Lacey had realized where she had to look when she finally
stopped shaking from the deadly encounter with Natalija, and they
had made their statements to the police. She waited to tell Vic until
they were finally alone. He said it was ridiculous, it wasn't logical.
How could she be sure? She told him she wasn't sure of anything,
and it didn't make any logical sense, just intuitive sense. But finding Magda's note hidden in her corset told her to keep looking for
the truth hidden inside. Magda had shed a drop of her blood to
wish Lacey luck. And now she kept hearing two dead women saying the same word over and over, Magda and Natalija, both of
them descended from the two Latvian soldiers who had stolen the
corset in Ekaterinburg long ago. They were both saying the word
"dummy."
Nicole brought a step stool and lifted the dummy down from
the ledge near the ceiling, where it had been keeping company
with antique hatboxes and other forgotten decor. She set it on a low
table in the center of the shop, which she closed for the occasion,
and whisked off decades of dust with a feather duster. She stepped
back and nodded to Lacey. Prick a finger for me, Magda, wherever
you are, Lacey thought.
Lacey examined the dressmaker's dummy carefully. Nicole Demaine had supplied her with a pair of thin white cotton gloves to
wear. The cloth covering the dummy had aged to a deep ivory,
smudged with dust, rust-stained around the metal neck plate, but it
was intact, its front seams straight and neat. But on the back of the
dummy Lacey saw a jagged seam, crudely sewn. "Secrets between
the stitches," she said to herself, that's what Magda wrote inside
my corset.
With trembling fingers, Lacey opened the jagged seam with a
seam ripper borrowed from Nicole. She slipped her gloved hand
inside the dummy and felt a flat wad of some material. She drew
it out slowly while the others held their breath. It was heavy. The
material was folded over and stiff with age and heavily stained.
Lacey carefully unfolded it: It was a small corset. It would fit a
very small-boned young woman, perhaps a teenager. There was a
hush of expectant silence. She wondered what color the corset was
originally, perhaps even pure white, in a finely woven cotton or
linen with a quilted covering. Now it was aged a dark yellow,
smeared and spattered with the brown of long-dried blood, its
laces cut. The corset was torn and gashed, some of the rips mended
by hand with irregular patches of a rougher homespun material.
Some were loose, their stitches brittle with age. The darkest brown
stains seemed to radiate from beneath the largest patches.
Lacey delicately lifted one of the loose patches with the seam
ripper to expose a long gash through which something gleamed.
She turned the corset toward the light. It flashed brilliantly, and
someone gasped. Through the gash Lacey saw large diamonds set
in platinum, perhaps a bracelet or a necklace. It was dazzling.
"Holy cow, Lacey," Stella blurted out, "what the hell is it?"
"A treasure, a dream, a nightmare," Lacey said. "Or all those
things." She lifted another loose patch: More diamonds glittered in
the shop lights. And then rubies. Vic gave a low whistle.
"My God," Kepelov said slowly, "it can't be real, can it?" He
reached out to touch it, but Turtledove cleared his throat gently. He
pulled his hand back. "But the corsets don't exist. They were all
cut apart and the jewels were taken by the Bolsheviks."
"Nothing's real till you bloody find it, mate," Griffin said. "The
Romanovs' bones didn't exist either. And then they dug 'em up a
few years back."
"This is incredible! It belongs to Russia," Kepelov proclaimed.
"To the Russian people."
"Ha! Finders, keepers, mate. But just wait till the live Romanovs hear about this."
"I feel an international incident coming on," Lacey said. Vic
hired Turtledove and his cousins on the spot to provide security all
the way back to Washington.
Lacey let everyone gaze at the corset and its contents, under Vic
and Turtledove's watchful eyes. She and Trujillo took endless photographs. Nicole posed with the dummy and the corset, a little
breathless, and then Lacey, and then Stella too. Lacey called Mac
at The Eye and listened to him laugh and yell for someone to get
the presses ready for a special edition. She even called Brooke at
her law office and listened to her squeal with joy. She let everyone
in the little dress shop marvel and wonder and speculate and talk.
And talk and talk.
Finally she put the corset in an archival document box lined
with acid-free paper and the dummy in a similar but larger box.
Handling them again would be a job for experts in historical garment conservation, and in Romanov jewels. And probably international diplomacy.
"Isn't it funny," Nicole Demaine said to Lacey as she packed it
all up. "I wanted to get rid of that dusty old thing years ago, but
Mother would never let me. She said it brought her good luck."
"Your mother was the only one," Lacey said. "It's brought everyone else bad luck." Including Magda Rousseau, Lacey thought. But
Magda brought me good luck. Maybe this will break the chain.
Vic held her close. "What about us, dragon-slayer? We never
get enough time, do we? Well, this is your lucky day. You just
proved it. So come on, make a wish. I'll make it come true."
Lacey looked at Vic, wondering. She thought perhaps they
were both finally making the same wish. But then she shook her
head, reluctantly.
"This dragon-slayer has to write a big story, fly home, and bake
a cake for Thanksgiving, remember?" She sighed. "Will you help
me, Vic?"
Vic kissed her and picked her up and spun her around until she
laughed and begged him to stop. "Let's go home and bake that
cake, sweetheart. I'm all yours."
"Good to know, cowboy." She kissed him again, and she kissed
him so he'd never forget it. "Now we just have to tell that to your
mother."

</file>

<file= AmE06_L12>

PROLOGUE

October 1978

A sharp rap next to his ear awakened Bradley Evans out of a troubled sleep and plunged him headlong into the worst hangover of his life. Or maybe it was a pre-hangover. Even before he managed to open his eyes, the world began spinning. He felt sick. He was so parched his tongue and lips seemed ready to splinter into pieces. Every bone in his body ached, and he was cold as hell.

The second sharp rap was accompanied by an authoritative voice. "Unlock the door, son. Then place both hands on your head and step out of the truck."

Bradley groaned. Step out of the truck? he wondered. What truck? What the hell am I doing in a truck?

"I'm warning you," the voice said again. "Unlock the door, hands on your head, and step out of the vehicle!"

Less than six months out of the army, Bradley was still accustomed to following orders from someone in authority, so he did his best to comply, but when he finally managed to open his eyes all he saw was blood - clots of blood everywhere: on the windshield, the dashboard, the rearview mirror. And on him, too - smeared on his hands, shirt, pants, and shoes. Somehow he managed to unlock the door, but he was incapable of stepping out of the vehicle on his own. Instead, he leaned out of the truck and retched onto the pavement, splashing bright yellow bile that still reeked of beer onto the deputy's highly shined pair of boots.

Suspended over the mess, Bradley tried to grasp what had happened. He remembered going to the bar and playing a couple of games of pool, but that was it. After he'd been given a DWI a year ago, he had promised Lisa that if he ever again had too much to drink, he'd call her to come get him, no matter what. Obviously he hadn't done that last night. Instead, he had wrecked his truck and now this huge cop was about to haul his ass off to jail. When Lisa found out, she'd kill him - or leave him.

Finally, he tried to straighten up. "Anybody else hurt?" he managed.

"You tell me," the cop returned. "Are you finished? Come on out now. Stand up. Hands behind your back."

Off in the distance, Bradley heard the siren of a second arriving cop car, but he had no intention of giving even this lone officer any trouble. He stumbled to his feet and then stood weaving unsteadily while the cop snapped a pair of metal cuffs onto his wrists. When he was able to look back at his old GMC, he was astonished to see that the pickup showed no visible damage.

Must be on the other side, he thought. Maybe I veered off the road and sideswiped a telephone pole or a fence post.

The problem with that line of thinking was that he didn't seem to be hurt, certainly not injured enough to explain that awful amount of blood.

"Who was with you?" the cop was asking. "Who else was in the vehicle?"

"I don't know," Bradley mumbled. "I don't remember. I thought I was alone."

He looked at the cop for reassurance. He was a balding, middle-aged, slightly portly man in a spotless stiffly starched khaki uniform and with a very large pistol strapped to a holster on his hip. The name tag over his shirt pocket identified him as Deputy Lathrop - Deputy D. H. Lathrop.

"I'd have to say you're mistaken about that," Deputy Lathrop returned with what Bradley recognized as a trace of an East Texas drawl. "And whoever was with you is hurt real bad or else he's dead."

Leaving Bradley standing alone, cuffed, and struggling to maintain his balance, the deputy returned to the pickup. Reaching in through the open driver's-side door, he brought something out. When he held it up, Bradley could only stare in stricken silence. It was Lisa's purse, the fringed dark leather one he had bought from a booth at the Cochise County Fair. He had given it to her on the spot even though her birthday was still weeks away.

"What's this?" Lathrop asked.

For a moment Bradley was too stunned to reply. What's Lisa's purse doing here? he wondered. She wasn't with me at the bar, or was she?

The deputy reached into the purse and pulled out a wallet -  Lisa's wallet. As he opened it, Bradley dissolved into tears, muttering, "Oh, God, what's happened? What have I done?"

Chapter 1

Ken Galloway sauntered up to the lectern and wrenched the neck of the microphone to its full height. Then, smiling, he gazed out at the "Candidate's Night" audience assembled in the spacious meeting room of the Sierra Vista Public Library.

"First off," he said with an engaging grin, "let me say that I'm in favor of motherhood and apple pie. After all, if it weren't for my mother, where would I be?"

The anticipated ripple of polite laughter drifted through the crowd. This was Ken's favorite way of opening his stump speeches. It always served him well in getting things off to a good start. Beginning with a familiar joke was a way of putting his whole political agenda front and center.

Seated off to Ken Galloway's right, Sheriff Joanna Brady steeled herself for what she knew would come next. She folded her hands in her lap, plastered a faint and entirely fake smile on her face, and willed her ears not to turn red. This far into the campaign she should have been used to her opponent's constant references to what he described as her "delicate condition." Joanna should have been accustomed to it, but she wasn't. The subject still rankled her every time Ken Jr. brought it up. She resented his constantly drawing attention to her growing belly and casually discussing her pregnancy again and again as though she were nothing more than an obliging live-action mannequin in some high school sex-ed classroom.

"The point is," Ken continued, "when my brothers and I were little, our mother stayed home and took care of us."

Yes, Joanna thought, because your father took off and left Lillyan Galloway penniless. She ended up living on welfare and raising her kids on Aid to Dependent Children. But Ken Galloway never mentioned that part of his wonderfully idealized family history, and neither did Joanna.

"Call me old-fashioned," Ken went on, "but I think there's a lot to be said for mothers being at home with their kids. Cochise County is a big place. There have been times in the last four years when Sheriff Brady hasn't been as responsive to her duties as she might have been due to the very real conflict of having a child at home. How much more difficult will it be for her to attend to law enforcement needs when she has two children to contend with, including a newborn baby?"

In the back of the room a woman, applauding furiously, rose to her feet. "That's right, Ken! Way to go!" Eleanor Lathrop Win-field shouted. "You tell her."

Joanna's mother's enthusiastic outburst was enough to propel Joanna out of her dream. She awakened panting and sweating, but the dream stayed with her for several long minutes. Although those were likely Eleanor's true feelings, to Joanna's personal knowledge her mother had never made any such statement - at least not in public - not during the campaign or after it.

The election itself was now a full three months in the past. Joanna had managed to eke out a narrow 587-vote victory, so she should have been over the campaign nightmares, but she wasn't. Night after night, in some variation of that same dream, she was perpetually running for office, and night after night her mother's continuing disapproval was always with her.

She reached out, longing to cuddle up to Butch's comforting presence, but he wasn't there. He had left early the previous afternoon for El Paso and a weekend mystery conference, where he would be on what his editor called the "limbo" panel - made up of first-time writers whose books were sold but not yet published. Butch's first novel, Serve and. Protect, wasn't due out until September, but his editor, Carole Ann Hudson, had engineered his being placed on a panel at the conference so he could "start getting his name out there."

"I'm not going to go running off to El Paso for three days when the baby's due in less than a week," Butch had declared.

"Due dates aren't exactly chiseled in granite," Joanna had responded. "Look at Jenny. She was ten days late, and I was in labor for the better part of eight hours before she was born. Think about it. El Paso is only five hours away, especially the way you drive. If I called you right away, you'd be here in plenty of time. Besides, Carole Ann must have gone to a lot of trouble to make this happen, including having bound galleys available. You need to be there."

But now, with the nightmare still lingering and her back hurting like crazy, Joanna wished she hadn't insisted Butch go. What she would have liked more than anything right then was one of his special back rubs. And although massages helped, Joanna was tired of having a sore back. Tired of not being able to sleep on her stomach. Tired as hell of being pregnant. And, as if to add its own two cents' worth, the baby stirred suddenly inside her and began hammering away at her ribs.

"All right, all right," she grumbled. "Since we're both wide awake, I could just as well get up."

Pulling on a wool robe that no longer connected around her middle, Joanna waddled out into the kitchen and started heating water. The bouts of morning sickness that had plagued the beginning of her pregnancy no longer existed, but her aversion to the taste of coffee lingered. Tea, not coffee, was now her drink of choice.

Joanna stood at the back door while Lady, the loving Australian shepherd she had rescued the previous summer, went outside to investigate the news of the day. In the crisp chill of early morning, Joanna savored the gentle warmth of the heated floor on her bare feet. Radiant heat in the floor was one of the things Butch had built into their rammed-earth house. At the time he suggested it, Joanna had thought it a peculiar thing to be worrying about heating a house in the Arizona desert. In the past few months, though, when her feet had been swollen after a long day at work, it had been wonderful to kick off her shoes and walk barefoot on the warmed floor. The dogs seemed to like radiant heat every bit as much as she did.

Once her tea was ready, Joanna repaired to her cozy home office, opened her briefcase, and removed her laptop. In the months before and after the election, she and Butch, along with her chief deputy, Frank Montoya, had strategized on how best to handle the complications of juggling being both sheriff and a new mother - the very question Ken Galloway had harped on throughout the campaign.

Under departmental guidelines, Joanna could have taken up to six weeks of paid maternity leave, but that didn't seem like a reasonable way to run her department. Barring some kind of unforeseen complication, she had settled on the idea of taking only two weeks of maternity leave. Beyond that, she'd do as much of her paperwork from home as possible. In a world of telecommuting, that wasn't such an outlandish idea. Between them, Butch and Frank had installed a high-speed Internet connection at High Lonesome Ranch and created a teleconferencing network that would allow Joanna to participate in morning briefings without her having to be at the Cochise County Justice Center in person.

"As long as you cooperate," she said, patting the lump of her belly where the as-yet-unnamed baby was still kicking away.

</file>

<file= AmE06_L13>

There was no one at the tiki bar when Genevieve and Bethany returned from their lunch. Bethany yawned. "I think I'm going to take a nap," she said, then looked at Genevieve. "No, no, I'm not. I'm not going to leave you alone."

"Bethany, I'm fine. I can't spend my entire life around other people," Genevieve told her.

"Yes, but let's wait until you meet that Adam guy, huh?"

Genevieve, staring down the docks, noticed that Marshall's boat was gone. She turned to Bethany, ignoring her friend's last comment. "Marshall went out."

"Marshall is impatient," Bethany said.

"He was the one who said we should take things slow, that this job was going to take time, and we shouldn't forget to have lives, so we wouldn't get sick of the work," Genevieve reminded her.

"Maybe he went fishing," Bethany suggested.

"Alone?" Genevieve asked.

"How do you know he's alone?"

"Good point. I don't."

Bethany yawned again. "Damn it. Go take a nap," Genevieve told her.

"No, we can do something lazy, like watch a DVD."

Looking around, Genevieve saw that Victor's door was ajar. "No," she said firmly. "Look." She set her hands on Bethany's shoulders, turning her friend so she could see Victor open the door. "I won't be alone. I'll go visit Victor. Quiz him about his latest conquests. He'll enjoy that. I'll be fine. You go and take a nap."

"How do you know he isn't entertaining a conquest right now?" Bethany demanded.

"Because his door is open," Genevieve told her.

"Okay, now you have a good point. But if you need me - "

"If I need you, I swear, I'll be on your doorstep. Promise."

Bethany at last gave her a hug, yawned again and started off for her own cottage. Genevieve turned to head toward Victor's.

She walked across the sand, then paused on his porch. There seemed to be a lot of thumping and banging going on inside. As she stood there, debating whether to knock, the door started to open.

"Victor," she said.

Then she gasped.

He was standing there with a head in his hands. A mannequin's head. The hair was stiff and flattened to the skull. Wide, blue, unseeing eyes stared out at Genevieve.

Her eyes narrowed instantly as she stared at her friend.

Victor appeared stricken. "Genevieve, I'm - "

"You son of a bitch," she said softly, and started to turn.

"No!" he cried.

He tried to catch hold of her shoulders, but she shook him off. He raced around in front of her, the offending head still in his hands.

"You don't understand," he told her anxiously.

She stopped dead, staring at him coldly. "I don't understand?" she said coolly. "Right. Get away from me, you son of a bitch."

"Genevieve, please, I swear to you. I'm not the one who did it," he pleaded.

She gritted her teeth, staring at him. She'd known Victor forever, and she wouldn't have put the joke past him. And the fact that he had fished the mannequin out of the sea, once the real body had surfaced, was only common decency.

But he was staring at her with what seemed to be sincere apology and complete honesty.

"I see," she said smoothly. "The mannequin just appeared in your cottage."

"I swear to you, it's the truth. We can go to church and I'll swear to you right before the altar, I didn't do it."

Was she an idiot to even consider believing him? While he was standing there with a head in his hands?

"Okay, okay. I thought it would be funny to put a mannequin on your porch. But not to hurt you. You're like my best friend forever. I would never hurt you. Ever. I thought it might smack you back into reality, that's all. But I didn't do it. Honest."

"Then who did?" she asked softly. "And how did it wind up back in your cottage?"

He shook his head. He'd either gotten pretty damn good at acting, she thought, or he was telling the truth. "I don't know."

"Why are you holding the head?"

He flushed, looking away for a moment before turning back to her once again, eyes steady, cheeks flushed. "I didn't want to be caught with it. I was dismantling it so I could take it to some Dumpster piece by piece."

"I see."

"Genevieve, you can ask at every store on the street. I never went to anyone trying to borrow or buy a mannequin."

"I will check on it, you know," she told him.

"I didn't do it," he repeated pleadingly.

Glancing down the beach, Genevieve saw that Alex was out, walking toward the tiki bar. She hadn't noticed them arrive, but Liz and Zach were seated there, as well.

"Maybe you'd better hide the evidence then," she said softly.

He swallowed, following her glance toward the tiki bar, and nodded. "Gen, I swear ... "

"All right, I believe you. But if I ever find out you're lying to me ... well, friends don't do stuff like this to friends. A joke is one thing - even if it wouldn't have been funny to me in the least. Lying about it ... "

"I'm telling the truth."

"Then hide that head. Especially under the circumstances."

"Yeah." He headed back toward his cottage, trying to nonchalantly tuck the head under his arm. He looked back at her. "Are you coming?" he asked hesitantly.

"Yeah," she told him. And followed.

It looked like a strangely bloodless massacre had taken place inside. Arms lay atop his bed, legs were strewn on the floor. The torso had been tossed on the futon. The white gown lay crumpled and ruined beside it.

"My God," Genevieve breathed.

"Hey, it was a mannequin. Not real," he reminded her.

She shook her head. He had a box of heavy-duty garbage bags by the coffeemaker. Standing by the door, Genevieve watched as he bagged an arm.

"Are you going to help?" he demanded.

"Victor, you shouldn't be getting rid of it. We need to find out who did this," she said.

"Why?" he asked.

"Why? So that we know!"

He shook his head. "If I showed this to anyone, I'd be blamed. You know that."

"I'm the one the trick was played on. If I'm not mad, what does it matter?"

"You believe me, but who else will? Not your new Romeo, that's for certain!"

"But, Victor - "

"Are you going to help or not?"

"No. You're my friend, Victor, and I believe you. So it's important to find out who did this."

Again, he stubbornly shook his head. "It was a prank. It was put in here afterward just so I'd be blamed. We need to make it disappear. Whoever did it will eventually start to get nervous and want to know what happened. He - or she - will start asking questions."

Genevieve folded her arms across her chest. "She? What woman could have done this? Not Bethany, I can assure you."

"I put that in for political correctness," he said indignantly. "But what do we really know about Lizzie or her husband?"

"Oh, please!"

"Okay, so forget the she. And Zach. I don't think he'd have done this. They don't seem to have a sense of humor."

"Right, because this was so funny."

"Will you please just help me, before someone else shows up?"

She stared at Victor. Was she a fool to believe him? "All right. But like I said, if I ever find that you did this ... "

"You won't," he said flatly.

"Okay, once the body parts are bagged, what next?"

"Then we take a little walk and start to get rid of them. I'll even buy you a drink along the way."

"What a deal," she murmured. She was surprised to feel queasy when she picked up a disconnected leg.

It wasn't real, she thought to herself.

Then again, were ghosts?

 

Jay got Thor started on the computer, showing him how to run the program. There hadn't been a problem. Jay's superiors seemed to believe that Thor had government connections, and that as head of the current salvage project, Thor should have access to information regarding criminal activity in the area.

Thor wasn't exactly sure why, but he found himself looking back over the last twenty years.

Some of the files contained crimes that had spanned both Miami-Dade and Monroe counties. The frequency of violent crime in the big city was frightening; but heading south, into Jimmy Buffett-ville, violence decreased. Live and let live. But there were still a number of murders on the books, most of them solved. Husbands who had killed wives. Wives who had killed husbands. Drug deals gone bad. Accidental killings. There were also files that contained crimes that hadn't been solved, or where the solutions were questionable. A two-year-old, drowned in a swimming pool. The child had suffered from severe birth defects. Had the agonized mother decided death was better than life? The police had been suspicious, but they had found no proof, and she had never gone to trial, with the death officially ruled accidental.

After a while, Jay excused himself, explaining he had paperwork to do.

After Jay left, Thor began to wonder what he was doing, just what he was looking for.

He moved on to missing persons reports.

Many of the missing had been found. Children were not always abducted; sometimes, they were runaways, and the Keys were a nice place to run away to. Warm weather, easy work, tourists willing to give handouts. Dina Massey, a blue-eyed blond sixteen-year-old from Ohio had made it down on a bus. After two months of panhandling, she had been questioned by a police officer. She had broken down, eager to go home but afraid of how her father would react. A picture showed tearful parents who had come for her, forgiving all. Donald Leto, of Fort Lauderdale, hadn't been so lucky. He, too, had run away. He, too, had been sent home. A notation at the bottom of the file noted that he had died back in Fort Lauderdale, a victim of vehicular homicide.

His father had been driving the car that killed him.

Thor decided he was looking for victims over twenty-one.

Right before he switched screens, however, he found a missing persons case that hadn't been solved. The bulletin had been sent from Miami. The girl in the picture, Maria Rico, was a beautiful blonde. She had disappeared just the year before. Friends suspected that either her abusive stepfather had killed her - though police had found no evidence to support such a scenario - or that she had run south. A "friend" she had met on the Internet had suggested he could give her a haven from her abusive stepfather if she afforded him the opportunity.

No one knew the identity of the friend. And she hadn't been seen in Key West, though her photo had been plastered across the island.

Thor stared at the girl's picture. She had been seventeen at the time of her disappearance. Every inch a woman. He wondered why no one had suspected the woman found on the beach that morning might have been this runaway. He needed to ask Jay. Filing away the mental note, he went on.

The first unsolved disappearance he could find that was directly linked to Key West had occurred almost eight years ago. The woman's name had been Shea Alexandria. She'd been born Mary Brown, but since she had intended to be the world's next supermodel, she had changed her name accordingly. She was blond and beautiful. Her picture seemed to jump off the page with attitude and humor.

Work in New York had led her to bathing suit jobs on the South Florida beaches. A promotion with a liquor company had brought her to Key West. After a party at which the attendees had imbibed heavily, she had vanished. She had left the party alone and never returned to her hotel room. There had been no signs of violence along her route.

</file>

<file= AmE06_L14>

She wasn't sure Joe still wanted her. Montalvo had already said she wasn't enough for him right now. She might very well end up alone.

And it would probably serve her right. Perhaps a person as obsessed as she should be alone. That way she wouldn't hurt anyone but herself.

She got to her feet. No use sitting here brooding. She would shower, start to pack, and then go to sleep. Tomorrow she'd talk to Montalvo about arranging for her to go back to Atlanta.

It was time to put her life back on track.
"Eve? Are you asleep?"

She turned over in bed to see Joe silhouetted in the open doorway. "No. Come in."

He closed the door and crossed the room to the bed. "I was going to wait until morning. But I couldn't do it."

"It's close enough." She glanced at the clock on the nightstand. "It's almost four A.M. That's morning." She sat up in bed. "And I couldn't sleep anyway." She tried to smile. "You pretty well blew me away."

"I know. I had ...  issues."

"Obviously. Will it help if I tell you I understand every single one?"

He sat down on the bed beside her. "It helps."

"Should I turn on the light?"

"Not now. There's enough moonlight coming in that window." He was silent a moment. "I can work my way through most of those issues. Once I'm healthy I don't believe you're going to treat me like a second-class citizen. You never have before."

"You were never hurt and in danger before. I don't promise I wouldn't do the same thing again. I love you, Joe. Protection goes with the territory. It's self-preservation for me as well as you."

"Then I'll have to be damn sure I don't get wounded again. I can't take it." He paused. "And I'm not afraid of Montalvo. I can find ways to make you forget him. He's the new kid on the block. I know you better than he ever could."

I looked at you and saw myself.

"Yes."

"That wasn't very convincing."

"I'm convinced you can do anything you want to do."

He reached out and took her hand. "Except one thing."

She knew what was coming and instinctively tensed.

"Bonnie. I can't make you forget Bonnie."

"No, you can't," she said unevenly. "Not ever. And if that's becoming a problem, it's the one thing I can't solve."

"It's a problem. I used to think if I could just find her that it would be over. But it's not happening and you almost died this time trying to find her."

"And so did you."

"Yet when we get back to the U.S., you're going to go after that lead Montalvo got for you."

"Yes." Her hand tightened. "So if you're smart, you'll leave me. You don't deserve this."

He looked down at their joined hands. "Do you want me to leave you? Will it make it easier for you?"

"God, no."

He was silent a moment. "Then I think I'll stick around." He kicked off his shoes. "Scoot over. The last time I held you, I was so drugged I couldn't appreciate it."

She shifted over in bed and he enfolded her in his arms. Lord, he felt good. "I love you, Joe," she whispered. "This is all I want. You're all I want."

"That's good to know." He kissed her temple. "And I'll work very hard on keeping the status quo intact."

"So will I," she whispered. "Forever ... "
Montalvo was in the library when she came downstairs later that morning. "Good morning." His gaze searched her expression. "You're ...  serene. I'm not sure that's good for me."

"I want you to arrange transportation to send Joe and me home."

He nodded. "Ah, a reconciliation. Definitely not good for me."

"Will you do it?"

"Of course. I'll have you out of here by late this afternoon." He stood up. "Do I get a fond kiss good-bye?"

"No."

"Coward." He smiled. "I've never kissed you and I thought it would be interesting. But I agree it's better not to run the risk. It would get in the way."

"No risk," she said. "How is Miguel?"

"Much better now that I let him shoot Soldono." He grimaced. "But Venable isn't as pleased. He wanted to bring Soldono back to your justice. I don't trust courts." His expression darkened. "And Miguel deserved his revenge."

She shivered as she remembered the boy hanging from that cross. "When are you taking him to the hospital in the U.S.?"

"As soon as I wind up my affairs here. I'm closing the compound."

"What?"

"I'm retiring. I have all the money I could possibly need. I've accomplished what I set out to do." He inclined his head at her. "We've accomplished what I set out to do. Armandariz and I are burying Nalia's remains in the cemetery in the village where she was born."

"Then she's truly home," she said softly.

He nodded.

"Good. That makes me very happy." She turned to go back upstairs.

"And as soon as I get Miguel on his feet, I'll be keeping my promise about Bonnie's killer."

"I have the names. Joe and I can follow through on it."

"But that wouldn't be keeping my promise."

"We can do it," she repeated.

He studied her expression. "We'll discuss it another time."

"No, I don't want you near me, Montalvo."

He nodded slowly. "Quinn is feeling threatened?"

She didn't answer.

He tilted his head appraisingly. "Or are you the one feeling threatened?"

"We can handle it ourselves." She started up the stairs. "Just as we've always done."
The sun was setting as Eve, Joe, and Galen got into the jeep.

"Why don't you go down and tell her good-bye?" Miguel asked from his bed across the room from the window where Montalvo stood looking down at the courtyard below. "It's what you want to do."

Turn around, Eve. You know I'm watching you.

"How do you know what I want to do?" Montalvo asked.

"I have nothing to do but lie here and think," Miguel said.

"And since I have a very boring selection of subjects I chose you." He paused. "You let her go. I didn't think you'd do it."

"She's not ready for me yet. It would have been a disaster if I'd not walked carefully."

"But you could say good-bye."

"It wouldn't have been satisfactory for either one of us. She's very defensive about Quinn." He smiled. "And not saying good-bye is not a bad thing."

Turn around and look up, Eve.

She gazed straight ahead as the driver started the car.

I'm here, Eve. Just a glance ... 

Her shoulders tensed and for a moment he thought she'd look back.

She didn't do it. Her shoulders were straight, her eyes still straight ahead as the driver drove through the gates.

Of course she hadn't looked back. It would have been foreign to her character to give in to that impulse.

But for an instant she had thought about it and that was a triumph too.

"They're gone." He turned away from the window and strolled back to the bed. "By tomorrow they'll be safely tucked away in their cozy cottage by the lake."

"You don't seem upset."

"There's no use being upset." He poured a cup of coffee for Miguel and lifted it to his lips. After the boy had taken a few swallows he set the cup on the saucer. "It's counterproductive. And you know that's not my way."

"So what will you do?"

"I'll go and put my Nalia in her final resting-place. Then I'll take you to that Emory Hospital and get you well. I'm very tired of waiting on you like this. I think you're beginning to enjoy it too much."

Miguel smiled slyly. "Maybe."

"And then I'll put you into a school and make you slave at the books."

Miguel's smile faded. "I'm staying with you."

"Who said I wouldn't be there?"

"All the time?" Miguel asked suspiciously.

Montalvo's glance returned to the window. "I might take a few excursions while you're otherwise occupied."

Miguel's jaw set. "I won't be 'otherwise occupied.' Not if it means you're dumping me somewhere. I don't give a damn about your books."

Montalvo looked back at him and he slowly shook his head. "What am I going to do with you, boy?"

"Keep me around. We've got to be together, Colonel."

Montalvo nodded, and carefully avoiding Miguel's bandaged hands, he grasped his forearm with affection. "I believe you're right," he said softly. A warm smile lit his face. "We've got to stay together."
18
Lake Cottage

The sun was going down and casting a glory of pink-and-purple mirror images on the lake.

Mirror ... 

Would she ever be able to think of that word without remembering Montalvo, Eve wondered as she leaned back against a pine and linked her arms about her knees.

Of course she would. It would only take time. Good heavens, she hadn't thought of him more than a few times during the entire two months that had passed since they had left the compound. In a year she wouldn't remember Montalvo existed.

"Yes, you will."

She glanced sideways to see Bonnie leaning against the tree a few yards away. A surge of love swept through her.

"You know nothing about it," she said. "You're a kid."

Bonnie sighed. "I told you that doesn't make any difference now."

"You always tell me what I want to hear. That's very suspicious, you know."

"I want to make you happy. It doesn't mean I don't tell you the truth."

"As you see it."

A luminous smile lit Bonnie's face. "As I see it."

"I am happy," Eve said softly. "Whenever I see you, I'm happy. Of course, that makes me pretty wacko."

"And are you happy with Joe now, Mama?"

"Of course I am." It was the truth. Why shouldn't she be happy? They had each other and the peaceful life they had almost lost. "Why do you ask?"

Bonnie just looked at her.

"Okay, there are things to work out. It's not as ...  smooth."

"Smooth isn't always good. Perhaps you needed shaking up, Mama."

"Not like that," she said dryly. "I'll pass."

"He was good for you."

"Montalvo? You don't know what you're talking about."

"It was like being caught in a storm. You had to fight to survive, but it excited you. It made you come alive. I like to see you all glowing and intent."

"I'm glad I made you happy. It wasn't so much fun for me." She gazed out at the lake. "And it's over. I'm only waiting for Joe's wounds to finish healing and we'll be going after a man who may have killed you. Did he do it, baby?"

"I told you that I don't think about things that happened that night. It makes me - I don't think about it."

Eve closed her eyes as she thought about the horror of that night. "I forgot," she whispered. "I'm sorry, baby. I could just use a little help."

"You'll have help. You have Joe." She smiled. "And you'll have Montalvo."

"I don't have Montalvo. I'll probably never hear from him again."

"You'll hear from him. He's there, waiting."

"Then I'll send him on his way. I don't need him."

"Whatever you say," Bonnie said gently. "It's getting dark. Joe's going to make steaks on the barbecue tonight. He's wondering where you are."

"Then I'd better go hack to the cottage." She opened her eyes. "I don't like to - "

Bonnie was no longer there. She felt the familiar pang of sadness and loss.

"Good-bye, baby," she whispered.

She got to her feet and strolled down the path toward the lake cottage.

Joe had come out on the porch and waved to her.

She waved back at him.

Contentment and love flowed through her as she saw Joe leaning on the porch rail and smiling at her. Her pace quickened with eagerness as she moved toward him.

</file>

<file= AmE06_L15>

Chapter 
One        
 Mental illness runs in the Purcell family
. I'd diligently typed this conclusion at the top of the report written on my word-processing program. I'd been so full of myself, so pleased with my thorough research and keen detecting skills that I'd smiled a Cheshire Cat smile for weeks on end. That smug grin hung around just like the cat's. It was on my face when I woke in the morning and it was there on my lips as I closed my eyes at night.
 I spent hours in self-congratulation: 
 Oh, Jane Kelly, private investigator 
extraordinaire. How easy it is for you to be a detective. How good you are at your job. How exceptional you are in your ﬁeld! 
 However...
 I wasn't smiling now.
 Directly in front of me was a knife-wielding, delusional, growling, schizophrenic-the situation a direct result of my investigation into the Purcells. In disbelief I danced left and right, frantic to avoid serious injury. I looked into the rolling eyes of my attacker and felt doomed. Doomed and downright FURIOUS at Dwayne Durbin. It was his fault I was here! It was his ridiculous belief in my abilities that had put me in harm's way! Hadn't I told him I'm no good at confrontation? Hadn't I made it clear that I'm damn near a chicken-heart? Doesn't he ever listen to me?
 His fervent belief in me was going to get me killed!
 Gritting my teeth, I thought: I hope I live long enough to kill Dwayne ﬁrst.... 
 I was deep into the grunt work necessary to earn my license as a private investigator. Dwayne Durbin, my mentor, had ﬁnally convinced me I would be good at the job. His cheerleading on my behalf was not entirely altruistic: he wanted me to come and work for him.
 I'd resisted for a while but circumstances had arisen over the summer that had persuaded me Dwayne just might be right. So, in September I became Dwayne Durbin's apprentice-and then I became his slave, spending my time putting in the hours, digging through records, doing all his dog work-which really irritates me, more at myself than him, because I'd known this was going to happen.
 And though I resented all the crap-work thrown my way, Dwayne wasn't really around enough for me to work up a head of steam and vent my feelings. He was embroiled in a messy divorce case for Camellia "Cammie" Purcell Denton. His association with the Purcell family was why I'd delved into the Purcell family history in the ﬁrst place. I admit this was more for my own ediﬁcation than any true need on Dwayne's part, but I ﬁgured it couldn't hurt.
 That particular September afternoon-the afternoon I wrote my conclusion on the report-was sunny and warm and lazy. It was a pleasure to sit on Dwayne's couch, a piece of furniture I'd angled toward his sliding glass door for a view of the shining waters of Lake Chinook. I could look over the top of my laptop as I wirelessly searched databases and historical archives and catch a glimpse of sunlight bouncing like diamonds against green water.
 Resentment faded. Contentment returned. After all, it's difﬁcult to hold a grudge when, apart from some tedium, life was pretty darn good. My rent was paid, my mother's impending visit had yet to materialize, my brother was too involved with his ﬁancée to pay me much attention, and I had a dog who thought I was...well ... the cat's meow.
 I ﬁnished the report and typed my name on the ﬁrst page, mentally patting myself on the back for a job well done. Reluctantly, I climbed to my feet and went to check out Dwayne's refrigerator. If he possessed anything more than beer and a suspect jar of half-eaten, orange-colored chili con queso dip, life would pass from pretty darn good to sublime. My gaze settled on a lone can of diet A&W root beer. Not bad. Popping the top, I returned to the couch and my laptop.
 Intending to concentrate, my eyes kept wandering to the scene outside the sliding glass door. Dwayne, who'd been lounging in a deck chair, was now making desultory calls on his cell phone. He stepped in and out of my line of vision as I hit the print button, wirelessly sending information to Dwayne's printer. Nirvana. I'm technologically challenged, but Dwayne has a knack for keeping things running smoothly and efﬁciently despite my best efforts. Since I'd acquired my newest laptop-a gift from an ex-boyfriend-I'd slowly weaned myself from my old grinder of a desktop. This new, eager slimmed-down version had leapfrogged me into a new era of computers. It ﬁred up and slammed me onto the Internet faster than you can say, "Olly olly Oxenfree." (I have no idea what this means but it was a favorite taunt from my brother Booth who was always crowing it when we were kids, gloating and laughing and skipping away, delighted that he'd somehow "got" me. Which, when I think about it, still has the power to piss me off.)
 The new laptop untethered me from my old computer's roosting spot on the desk in my bedroom. Now, I'm mobile. I bring my work over to Dwayne's, which he highly encourages. I'm fairly certain Dwayne hopes I'll suddenly whirl into a female frenzy of cleaning and make his place spotlessly clean. Like, oh, sure, that's going to happen.
 Still, I enjoy my newfound freedom and so Dwayne's cabana has become a sort of ofﬁce for me. I claimed my spot on his wellused but extremely comfortable one-time blue, now dusty gray, sofa early. Being more of a phone guy, Dwayne spends his time on his back deck/dock and conducts business outdoors as long as it isn't raining or hailing and sometimes even if it is.
 Feeling absurdly content (always a bad sign for me, one I choose to ignore) I checked my e-mail. Nothing besides a note from someone named Trixie which I instantly deleted. One day I made the mistake of opening one of those spam e-mails about super hot sex and ever since I've been blessed with a barrage of Viagra, Cialis and penis enlargement ads and/or promises. If I didn't have penis envy before, I sure as hell do now. Eighteen inches? Where would you park that thing on a daily basis? There are a lot of hours when it's not in use . . . unless you count the fact that it functions as some guys' brains. I have met these sorts, but I try not to date them. Makes for uncomfortable dinners out where I talk and they just stare at my breasts. If I had serious cleavage I could almost understand, but my fear is that it simply means my conversation is really boring.
 My cell phone rang with a whiny, persistent ring. I am going to have to ﬁgure out how to change it. A James Bond theme would be nice. I snatched it up without looking at Caller ID. An error. Marta Cornell, one of Portland's most voracious divorce lawyers, was on the line.
 "Jane!" Marta's voice shouted into my ear. Her voice lies at sonic-boom level. I feared this time she may have shot one of my inner ear bones-the hammer, the anvil or the stirrup-into the center of my brain. Who names those things, anyway?
 "You know Dwayne was working for Cammie Purcell," Marta charged ahead without waiting for my response. "Jane? Are you there?"
 "Yes." I was cautious. Marta was Cammie's divorce lawyer and Dwayne had been following Cammie's husband Chris around for several weeks, intent on obtaining proof that he possessed a second family. Said family was apparently sucking up some Purcell money. Chris Denton wasn't exactly a bigamist. He'd never actually married his other "wife." But he had children with her and he divided his time between them and Cammie. Stunted as he was maturity-wise, I was impressed he could juggle two relationships. Sometimes I ﬁnd it difﬁcult just taking care of my dog.
 "That job's pretty much ﬁnished, isn't it?" Marta asked.
 "I think so." Actually, I wasn't completely sure. Cases like Cammie's seemed to undulate: sometimes the work lasted days on end; other times it nearly died. When Dwayne had ﬁrst discovered the dirt on Chris, he'd disclosed it to Cammie and Marta. With divorce in the ofﬁng, Marta must have seen greenbacks ﬂoating around her head, but weirdly, Cammie's only remark had been a question: "What are the childrens' names?"
 Later I'd learned this query had some merit after all: Chris's two girls-with his almost wife-were Jasmine and Blossom. When Dwayne told Cammie their names her face crumpled as if she were going to cry. But then she fought off the tears and went into a quiet rage instead.
 "Her eyes looked like they were going to bug out of her head," Dwayne told me later. "I took a step backward. Her hands were clenching and unclenching. She wanted to kill me for telling her. A part of my brain was searching the room for a weapon. But then she kinda pulled herself together." Dwayne gave me a long look. "I don't ever want to be in a room alone with her again. No wonder the bastard left her."
 Camellia's strange behavior was explained when it surfaced that many of the female members of the Purcell family were named after ﬂowers. Apparently Chris's non-Purcell "wife" had fallen for this weird obsession as well, and since it was a decidedly Purcell quirk, Cammie appeared ready to kill over it.
 This was about the time I decided to indulge in some Purcell family history. Hence, my report.
 "Jasper Purcell would like to meet with you," Marta said, bringing me back to the present with a bang. "He needs a P.I."
 "You mean, meet with Dwayne?" I asked, puzzled. I was the research person, not the A-list investigator.
 "Nope." Her voice sounded as if she were trying to tamp down her excitement. Must be more money involved. "He called this morning and asked me for the name of a private investigator. It's something of a personal nature, to do with his family."
 "This is Dwayne's case," I reminded her. I didn't add that Dwayne wanted to wash his hands of the whole thing.
 "Jasper wants someone else to tackle this one. Says it's sensitive."
 I glanced through the sliding glass door to where Dwayne, who'd removed his shirt in the unseasonably hot, early October sunshine, was standing on the dock. His back was hard, tan and smooth. Someone who knew him drove by in a speedboat and shouted good-natured obscenities. Dwayne turned his head, grinned and gave the guy the ﬁnger.
 "How sensitive?" I asked.
 "He said he wants a woman."
 I wasn't sure what I thought of that. Just how many private investigators did the Purcell family need? "I'll have to make sure this is okay with Dwayne."
 "I talked to Dwayne this morning," Marta revealed. "He said he's had his ﬁll of the Purcells but if you wanted to step in, he was all for it."
 Nice of Marta to keep that tidbit of information back while she felt me out on the subject. I didn't like being manipulated, and I was pretty sure that was what she was doing.
 Also, I knew Dwayne's feelings about Cammie, but this sounded suspicious. Dwayne likes to cherry-pick assignments. That's why I'd been relegated to grinding research and drudge work. I narrowed my eyes at his back until he glanced around. His brows lifted at my dark look and he stuck his head inside the gap in the sliding glass door. "What?"
 "I'm talking to Marta Cornell about the Purcells."
 "They pay well, darlin', and that's the only goddamn good thing about 'em." He went back to the sunshine, turning his face skyward like a sybarite.
 Marta persisted, "Our client wants you to meet him at Foster's around four.

</file>

<file= AmE06_L16>

The door opened just then and I gave an involuntary shriek. Being on the lam was still new to me, and I was a bit jumpy.

But it was only Emma, laden down with bags of food and, she said with a grimace, some "not-so-great news."

It had taken her awhile to locate a working pay phone " - I guess they just assume everyone has a cell phone now - " but she finally found one and got through to Matthew. He had another update from Peter: the police had returned to the apartment in the afternoon with a search warrant. It didn't occur to me at the time to wonder why Peter seemed to be spending all day in the apartment.

"A search warrant?" echoed Luisa. "That's really not good. That means they're serious."

"Rachel's innocent," Jane pointed out. "So there's nothing for them to find."

"Well, sort of," said Emma. "But I guess there was some stuff which, taken out of context, could be construed as evidence."

"Like what?" I asked.

"They took your computer, for starters."

"That won't be a problem. Peter seemed pretty confident he'd cleaned up the hard drive."

"It wasn't just your computer. They also went through your study and found something interesting enough to box up everything in there and take it all away. Do you know what they could have found?"

I didn't have to think very hard to answer this. Mostly the files in my study held financial statements and medical records - it was all fairly innocuous, unless you counted the number of cavities I'd had filled. But in my rush to leave this morning, I'd also left my briefcase, complete with my "insurance policy," the notebook I stored in its inside pocket, on top of the file cabinet. The most recent entries were pretty explicit regarding Gallagher's treatment of me and my reactions.

"That's not all," Emma continued. "They took your TiVo, too."

"My TiVo? There's nothing on it but Peter's Star Trek episodes and reruns of Dawson's Creek. And my entire Forensic City backlog - oh."

"Oh, what?"

"Forensic City. I didn't see it, but Jake told me there's an episode where somebody dies from a poisoned toothpick, sort of like how Gallagher died from the poisoned pencil."

"I saw that episode," said Hilary. "It was really good. I didn't figure out what happened until the very end."

"Was there anything else?" I asked Emma.

"Um, yes. One more thing," she said reluctantly.

"What?"

"Under the sink. In the kitchen."

God only knew what was in that cabinet - I'd been surprised simply to find usable dishwasher detergent the other night. It was probably all the same stuff that was there when I moved in. I'd always meant to sort it out, but I never really used the kitchen, so what was the point? I was fairly confident that my housekeeper kept it reasonably neat, but that was about the extent of it. "The woman I bought the apartment from was in her nineties. I have no idea what she might have accumulated," I said.

"Yes, well, she seems to have accumulated a nice big box of rat poison. With an active ingredient of potassium cyanide."
chapter sixteen

I n the bleak wasteland that was my love life prior to Peter, I'd Googled the various romantic interests I'd had as well as the blind dates people foisted on me, and I'd been amazed by the wealth of information I'd found. For example, a few keystrokes had informed me that the charming venture capitalist I'd met at the Harvard Club was an avid collector of Beanie Babies, bidding them up aggressively on eBay. This knowledge promptly dashed any hopes I might have had for our future together, but better my hopes were dashed before we'd even started dating than after accidentally stumbling upon his Beanie Baby collection while looking for the bathroom in his apartment.

The Internet proved an equally fertile hunting ground for matters less romantic in nature. We were up half the night running searches on the names and topics that Jane had detailed on the easel, including Naomi Gallagher and Annabel Gallagher. We also did some Googling of the victims for good measure. The Web yielded a stockpile of information that we used to shape our plan of attack: everyone - except for me, of course - was out the door by nine on Thursday morning, eager to pursue their designated leads.

The good news was that cyberspace easily yielded recent reports on Dahlia Crenshaw's condition; the bad news was that while she hadn't been run over by the E train, she'd struck her head when she hit the tracks and had no memory of who pushed her. I was glad that she hadn't been seriously hurt, but it would have been nice if she'd been able to clear my name.

Naomi Gallagher turned out to be a relatively high-profile publishing executive - high-profile because she'd acquired and edited a bestseller about chemical and biological weapons of mass destruction. "Maybe she knows about more targeted destruction, too," Hilary suggested.

We also discovered a picture of Naomi and her daughter at a function at Caldecott Academy, her daughter's school, on the Caldecott Web site. "I know a woman on the faculty there," said Jane. "I met her at a continuing education seminar. And teachers at private schools like that always know the dirt on the parents. Why don't I look her up and see what I can find out?"

Annabel Gallagher had a substantial presence in cyberspace. "Figures," I said, when I scanned the results Google delivered, unconsciously echoing Naomi's reaction when she'd encountered her successor.

"What figures?" asked Emma.

"She was a model."

"Vogue?" asked Luisa.

"Victoria's Secret?" asked Hilary.

"No, she's not tall enough for that sort of thing - she mostly did catalog work. But still, a model." I wasn't sure of the precise origins of the term "modelizer" - many credited Candace Bushnell and Sex and the City - but just because it was on TV didn't mean it wasn't true. In fact, a whole subculture existed in New York of men who were obsessed with dating models, regardless of whether they themselves were model material.

However, the model in question here had been busily remaking herself as a socialite since she married Gallagher two years ago. Most of the references we found were about Annabel chairing benefits or otherwise attending charity galas. One reference was especially interesting, a gossip column blurb noting Gallagher's absence from an Annabel-organized function and speculating about "trouble in paradise." Personally, I didn't see how domestic arrangements with Gallagher could ever have been described as paradise.

"I'll take Annabel," said Emma with confidence. "I know the type, and I know where to find people who will talk about her." Emma's mother had been one of New York's social leaders for decades, so it wasn't surprising that she knew "the type," although she herself shied away from the social limelight.

Luisa nominated herself to try and figure out what Dahlia had seen on the news. "There's a video clips service that my law firm uses to track mentions of their clients on TV. It records all of the main broadcast and cable channels. I can scan the news programs and figure out what Dahlia wanted to tell you - maybe it was something relevant to the buyout."

"That's a lot of news," I warned. "Local and national news on the major networks. And then all of the cable news channels."

"What time did she leave her message?"

"Sevenish."

"So, it was probably the six-thirty national news on one of the networks. I'll start there, and if I don't find anything, I'll broaden the search."

It sounded like a thankless task, but Luisa seemed willing to do it, and I didn't have any better ideas.

Hilary, meanwhile, volunteered to use her journalist credentials and connections to investigate the investigators. "I can find out more about the case they're building against Rachel and see if they have any other leads."

"You just have a thing for police detectives," Luisa said skeptically.

"Two birds. One stone. Need I say more?" asked Hilary.

 

There was a flurry of activity as they all prepared to leave, which made the loft seem extra quiet and empty once they'd actually left.

Emma had made sure that the kitchen was well-stocked with essentials. I helped myself to a can of Diet Coke and some salt-and-vinegar potato chips. Usually I ate breakfast at the office, under Jessica's watchful gaze. She probably wouldn't have approved of this morning's menu, but that was the least of my worries.

I wandered around the apartment a couple of times and then stared out the window for a few minutes. I thought about getting back on Emma's computer to try to do some more research, but I wasn't sure what else to research. Nor did I have much of an appetite for Web surfing after an entire night spent online, searching every possible lead. Instead I turned on the television and flipped channels, but I couldn't concentrate on anything that was on, and Emma didn't even have TiVo.

Thinking about TiVo made me wistful for my own TiVo. I hoped it wasn't being handled roughly in police custody. I missed the rest of my belongings, too, especially my BlackBerry. It was strange to go so long without checking messages; I'd recognized that I was sort of compulsive about checking in, but I hadn't realized just how compulsive until I was no longer able to. I felt twitchy and anxious, and while I could chalk that up to being a fugitive from justice, the BlackBerry withdrawal wasn't helping. It was hard to suppress the sense that the world was moving forward without me.

I'd checked the new e-mail account Peter had set up a couple of times during the night, but it had remained empty. Still, it couldn't hurt to check again. It was the only thing I could check safely, and maybe checking it would stave off my withdrawal for a bit.

I sat myself behind Emma's desk and logged in to the account. I'd gotten so used to being disappointed that I was already steeling myself for an empty inbox. But instead I was rewarded with a message from Man of the People.

I eagerly clicked it open, hoping he'd been a bit more explicit this time around.

But he hadn't written anything at all - the e-mail was completely blank.

It was a good thing I was alone, because my yelp of frustration wasn't very ladylike. I scrolled down in disbelief, and then closed the message and reopened it. But there was still nothing.

Who was this peculiar anonymous correspondent, and why was he bothering to correspond if he wasn't even going to communicate? It was bad enough that it had taken him days to respond to my response to his initial e-mail, but to respond without actually responding just added insult to injury.

I was about to hit Reply and give him a fairly scathing piece of my mind when I noticed I had missed something.

The e-mail had an attachment.

I was even gladder now that I was alone, because it would have been embarrassing to have to explain to anyone that I'd overlooked the attachment the first time around. I double-clicked on the little paper clip icon and opened the file.

It was a photograph of three men, highballs in hand, standing in front of an orange-and-black banner that read Princeton Class of 1976, 25-Year Reunion. Actually, it looked to be a photograph of a photograph in a magazine, perhaps the Princeton alumni journal, because there was a white border around the picture and a caption underneath.

I didn't need the caption to recognize two of the men - they were slightly younger versions of Glenn Gallagher and Nicholas Perry. The third man was identified as Flipper Brisbane, apparently also a member of the class of '76. He looked too old to go by a name like Flipper, but if he let himself be called Flipper in the first place he was probably beyond help.

</file>

<file= AmE06_L17>

"Don't be nervous. All you have to do is identify the man you saw with Vanessa Taylor."

Rita Powell looked straight at Jon Dodd. She stood stiff and straight, her eyes wide and staring. She pointed. "That's him. That's the man. I saw him."

"Oh my God." Lillian held her hands up to her face.

Dodd took one step back, another. "Cameron, I don't know what you think you're doing, but this is outrageous. I'll bring a lawsuit. I'm ordering you to get off this property."

From the top step, Maybelle's husky voice was a keen. "There's those that claim there's no such thing as the Evil Eye. They say" - her sidelong glance at her aunt was defiant - "they's no truth to potions and spells and such. But I can tell you that I know the Evil Eye when I see it and he turned the Evil Eye on Miss Vanessa. I saw him. I saw Mr. Dodd and his face was all cold as the underside of the dark beyond and he was glaring at her and then she was dead. He had the Evil Eye."

Annie took a deep breath, pushed past the pittosporum shrub, moved swiftly to the center of the drive, only a few feet from Jon Dodd. She pulled the small book with the floral-patterned cover from her pocket. "You thought Vanessa's diary was in her cottage. I said I'd packed it away, but I didn't. I kept it with me. I wanted to read it, but I knew I shouldn't. I knew it should be left to Ginny. I put it in my purse. When the cottage burned, I knew it had to be because of the diary. When I got back to my cottage, I got the diary out and I read it." She held the book up. "It's all in there. How you promised Vanessa you were going to marry her. How you asked her to help you play a trick on Max Darling. How she went to his office and showed him a snapshot and said her brother was missing - "

Jon's cheeks flared red. Sweat beaded his face. He took another step back, another.

" - and how she wanted him to meet her at Dooley's Mine to hunt for him. It's all in there, how she pretended to be crazy for Kyle so that no one would know about you and her. How she thought it was funny to see Heather so upset and Kyle trying to tell Heather he wasn't after Vanessa and she wouldn't believe him - "

"Damn you, Jon." Heather's cry was one of sheer fury. "I should have known. You married Mother for her money and then you couldn't stay out of bed with that tramp. She thought the money was yours, didn't she?" Heather was derisive. "Big-deal Jon. Vanessa thought she was going to marry a rich man, but if you left Mother, it would just be you and Vanessa. You might have liked playing with her, but you didn't want to lose everything. You decided to kill her."

"Jon ... " Lillian's voice shook.

Jon hunched his shoulders, stood like a bull tormented by banderillas. "There's nothing to this. Nothing at all. They don't have any proof."

His wife stared at him. "I saw you last night." Lillian's face might have been chipped from marble. "I saw you coming back from Vanessa's cottage. The phone rang and woke me up and you weren't there. I got up and the flames were already shooting up and I went to the balcony to look out and I saw you coming back toward the house."

Esther Riggs's somber voice rang out. "'The heart is deceitful above all things, and desperately wicked; who can know it?"'

Billy Cameron strode forward. "Jon Dodd, I arrest you for the murder of Vanessa Taylor on the night of Monday, August 16 ... "
11

C ameras clicked. Lights flashed. Tape whirred. Max was oblivious to reporters and onlookers, shouted questions, outthrust hands with microphones, television cameras. A car slid to a stop at the curb, Handler Jones driving, Max in the passenger seat. The passenger door opened and Annie was on the sidewalk, flying toward Max, arms wide. Her face had been scrubbed of the garish makeup, the wig and glasses discarded. They came together as if they'd never been apart. This moment was theirs alone, the world shut out. He buried his face in her sweet-scented hair; his lips moved against her cheek. "Oh God, Annie. I love you. I love you."

Tears streamed down her face.

"Don't cry. We're okay now. You saved me." He held her as if he'd never let go.

"All of us together did it, Max. Billy and Lou and your mom and Henny and Emma." She felt as if her heart was a balloon, bigger and bigger, filled with so much joy it must burst.

They held hands as they moved down the sidewalk, the questions following them. At the car, Annie was ready to climb into the back seat, Max close behind, when a petite TV reporter cried out, "Mr. Darling, don't you have anything to say to the world? It looked pretty black for you. Did you ever expect to be freed?"

Max stopped, his hand on Annie's elbow. He looked at the reporter, his blue eyes dark with memory. "I was innocent, but I didn't see how it could ever be proved. Do you know what happened?" A huge smile wreathed Max's face. "My wife and my friends and the police chief all set to work to find out the truth. I'm free because a first-rate police officer was too smart to be fooled by a killer. I'm free because I have friends who believed in me and worked for me. Most of all, I'm free because I have the smartest, bravest, most wonderful wife in the world."

 

Laurel Roethke smoothed back a tendril of white-gold hair. Her dark blue eyes gleamed with satisfaction as she bent close to Annie near the coffee bar at Death on Demand. "My dear, you are simply the cat's whiskers. Max has no idea about the party. I met the Stutz Bearcat man this morning at the ferry and that adorable car is now parked at Parotti's at the ready for the birthday festivities. That dear man may be back as well. I invited him." Laurel looked distracted for a moment, a smile curving her lips. She came back to the present. "The party Web site has been such fun I intend to maintain it. I've had several hits from Siberia. I believe I shall call it the merry-ever-after site. Of course, I'll feature the winners of our quiz. The table winners tonight will compete for a grand prize. Here's the question: Who sketched a design for a hovering machine that he called a helix pteron and when did he do so?"

Annie put a finger to her lips as Max approached, carrying a crystal plaque. "Later," she whispered to Laurel. Annie was as happy and frazzled as a mother duck ready to launch a brood on a triumphant sail. The wonderful week of Max's rescue was culminating in the best birthday party ever, though Max thought they were gathering at the bookstore to honor Billy Cameron. Indeed they were going to honor Billy, prior to departure in a double-decker bus hired from Savannah to convey the group to Parotti's.

Laurel turned. "Max, what a gorgeous plaque. Is Billy here yet?"

Ingrid Webb craned to look toward the front of the store. "Here he comes." The glad shout was raised by Henny Brawley, elegant in a pale violet georgette dress as summery as an August evening. Emma Clyde's orange and gold caftan swirled as she moved forward to greet the police chief and his wife.

The store was full of friends - Vince Ellis, Edith Cummings, Duane Webb, Pamela Potts. Standing near the coffee bar was Handler Jones.

Annie reached out, took the plaque. When Billy and Mavis reached the coffee bar, Annie held the plaque high above her head.

"Listen up, everybody." Max grinned and picked up a chair, stamped it on the floor for quiet.

Amid shouts and clapping, Annie held up the engraved plaque. "Billy, this is for you."

"I am thrilled to make the presentation." Henny Brawley stepped forward, glasses perched on her nose, and read, "To Captain Billy Robert Cameron, chief of police, in honor of his devotion to duty and determination to execute his responsibilities without fear or favor. Presented on this day of August 28 by grateful residents of Broward's Rock, South Carolina."

Billy's face burned apple red. "I just did my job." Mavis, lovely in a gentian blue dress, clapped loudly, eyes bright.

"That, dear Billy," announced Emma in her gruffest, deepest voice, "is the point. You did your job."

Max stepped forward, gripped Billy's hand. "If you hadn't" - and Max's voice was grave - "I wouldn't be here tonight. Thank you, Billy."

A cheer erupted.

Emma fluffed spiky orange hair. "Pass it around, Billy. I want everyone to see the mark in the right-hand corner, the mayor's stamp making this an official proclamation."

As the plaque went from hand to hand with appreciative oohs and ahs, Annie glanced toward Laurel. It was almost time to announce the arrival of the bus and their departure to Parotti's. Max was going to be surprised.

Laurel saw her glance, drifted near. "Leonardo da Vinci," she whispered. "In 1493."

Annie looked at her mother-in-law blankly. Had the moment come? Had Laurel's ever tenuous connection to reality been sundered? Had the trauma of this past week been too much for Laurel to survive?

Laurel gave Annie a sweet pat on her cheek. "My dear, the helix pteron. Now, isn't it time for us to leave?"

"Yes, but let's wait until everyone's spoken to Billy." Annie wanted Billy to have his moment in the sun, his well-deserved, well-earned moment in the sun.

Handler Jones paused near Annie. "Wonderful start to a wonderful night. And I'm glad to have a chance to tell you how much I like your store." He pointed toward the watercolors. "Neat idea. You can't beat suspense novels. Those are tops."

Annie recognized the tone of a mystery cognoscente. "Do you know them?"

"Oh, sure. The Thirty-nine Steps by John Buchan, The African Queen by C. S. Forester, Thank You, Mr. Moto by John P. Marquand, Above Suspicion by Helen MacInnes, and The Light of Day by Eric Ambler."

Annie grinned. "Pick a book, any book. Free coffee for a month, and" - she lifted her voice in a glad shout - "come on everybody. The bus is here. On to Parotti's. It's time to party."

 

Pink tendrils of sunrise graced the sky as Max turned the car into their drive. They'd laughed and sung, tangoed and marched, played games, hugged friends. Max had even managed a ragged "When the Saints Come Marching In" on a borrowed trumpet. As Max eased the car into their garage, Annie wriggled expectantly in her seat. She couldn't keep her secret any longer. "There's a special present for you upstairs."

Max turned off the motor. "The party was my present. And being with you." There was a world of gratitude and love and joy in his eyes.

"There's one more present in our room. The special one." Annie slipped out of her seat, called over her shoulder. "First one upstairs gets to open it."

They ran through the kitchen and terrace room. Of course, Annie let Max surge past her on the stairs.

Max stood in the center of their bedroom, holding a small, slender package wrapped in gold foil. He held it up, shook it. Something inside slid back and forth, made a thonking sound.

Annie hurried to stand next to him.

He ripped off the paper, opened the box, lifted out a worn black key. He stared at it in puzzlement.

Annie's smile was tremulous and loving and giving. "The key to the Franklin house. For you. For us. Happy birthday, Max!"

</file>

<file= AmE06_L18>

1

The woman who came into my office on a bright January day was a knockout. Her hair had blond highlights and her fawn-colored suit appeared to have been hand-sewn by Michael Kors. She took off some sort of fur-lined cape and tossed it over the arm of my couch, and came over and sat down in one of my client chairs. She smiled at me. I smiled at her. She waited. The light coming in my window was especially bright this morning, enhanced by the light snowfall that had collected overnight. She didn't seem dangerous. I remained calm.

"You don't know who I am," she said after a while. "Do you,"

Her voice sounded as if it had been polished by old money. It was her eyes. Someone I knew was in there behind those eyes.

"Not yet," I said.

She smiled.

"`Not yet,' " she said. "That's so you. I don't know now, but I will."

"My glass is always half full," I said, "Are you going to tell me or do I have to frisk you."

"God, it's good to see you," she said. "It's April."

I stared at her. And then there she was.

"April Kyle," I said, and stood up.

She stood up, too. I walked around the desk and she almost jumped against me. I put my arms around her. She was beautiful, but the incest taboo had kicked in the moment I knew who she was. It was like hugging a little girl. All the cool elegance was gone. She stayed against me with her arms around me and pressed her face against my chest.

"It's like coming home," she said.

"When you have to go there, they have to take you in." I said.

"Robert Frost."

"Very good," I said.

"You taught me that," she said.

I nodded. She kept her face pressed against my chest. It made her voice muffle a little.

"You taught me almost everything I know that matters." she said.

"That's not so hard," I said. "Because not many things matter."

"But the ones that do," she said, "matter a lot."

She let me go and stood back and looked at me for a moment, then sat back down. I went back to my desk chair and tilted back in it.

"Are you still with Susan?" she said.

"Yes."

She nodded. "And you're still doing what you do."

"And charmingly," I said.

"You look the same," she said.

"Is that good or bad?" I said.

"It's absolutely marvelous," she said. "It's been so long. I was terrified you wouldn't be here. But here you are. Looking the same. Full of irony and strength."

"You've become quite beautiful," I said.

"Thank you."

"And graceful," I said.

She smiled.

"Is it real?" I said.

"Mostly," she said.

I was quiet. I could smell her perfume. It smelled expensive. She was expensive. Everything about her: clothes, manner, makeup, the way she crossed her legs. The way she spoke.

"I'm still a whore," she said.

"And a very successful one," I said.

"Actually, I don't do so much of the, ah, hands-on anymore," she said and smiled at me. "I'm management now."

"It's what makes America great," I said.

"You don't disapprove," she said.

"I'm the guy sent you to Mrs. Utley," I said.

"You had no choice," April said. "I was a complete mess. You had to find someone to take care of me."

"How about you," I said. "Do you disapprove?"

"Disapprove?" April said. "I've been in this business since I was fifteen."

"Doesn't mean you approve," I said.

"And you sending me to the best madam in New York doesn't mean you approve," April said.

"I had to think about it a little because of you," I said. "And if it's among consenting adults and no one is demeaned-seems okay to me."

"Have you ever had sex with a whore?" April said.

"Not lately," I said.

"So maybe you do disapprove."

"Or maybe I'm such a chick magnet," I said, "that I never had time."

April smiled and looked for a moment at the bright morning hovering over Berkeley Street.

"Do you disapprove of me?" she said.

"No," I said. "I don't."

"I guess that's probably what I really was asking."

"Probably," I said.

"I've been back in Boston for more than a year," April Said,

I nodded.

"I never called you."

I nodded again.

"I guess I was afraid you wouldn't still be you, and, maybe, I guess, I was afraid you wouldn't like it that I was still in the whore business."

"I think the current correct phrase," I said, "is sex worker."

April shook her head a little.

"You used to say that a thing is what it is and not something else."

"I did," I said.

We were quiet again. She wanted me to help her out of whatever trouble she was in, but she didn't want to admit she was in trouble. Half the people who came into my office were that way.

I waited.

"Two years ago," April said, "she gave me some money and sent me up here."

"Patricia Utley," I said.

"Yes. You know her operation in New York?"

"Yes."

"She wanted me to open a branch up here," April said.

"And?"

"And I did. I bought a mansion in the Back Bay and hired the girls, and paid off the proper people, and ... the whole thing."

"Big job," I said.

"Big payoff," she said. "The business is very successful. I'm making a lot of money for her, and a lot of money for me."

"Good," I said.

"It's an all-woman enterprise," April said. "Mrs. Utley, me, the girls, even the more-or-less non-sex staff, bartenders, food preparation, everyone is female. The only men anywhere are the clients, and for them it's like a private club."

I nodded. She stopped talking and looked though the window again. I waited.

"And now some men are trying to take it away from us," she said.

Aha!

 
2

 

Hawk parked his Jaguar in a resident-only space in front of April's mansion. The sun was bright but without warmth. The weather was very cold, and it had kept the light snow cover from melting, so that the mall along Commonwealth Ave was still clean and white, and what snow there was underfoot was crisp and dry like sand.

We sat for a moment with the motor running and the heater on, and looked at the house. It was a beauty, a town house on a corner, four stories high with a big semicircular glass-roofed atrium on the cross-street side.

"April doesn't know who it is that's trying to shake her down," I said. "It was an anonymous phone call. But when she told him no, a couple guys showed up the next day and disrupted, ah, the orderly flow of enterprise."

"And they kept showing up?"

I nodded.

"It's an all-woman enterprise," I said. "And it's tricky. They are, after all, an illegal enterprise. It's hard to call the cops."

"Ain't there bribe money spread around?" Hawk said.

"Yes. But it's effective only when there's not a lot of attention drawn."

Hawk nodded, looking at the house. "Girl's got nice taste," Hawk said.

"Like you would know," I said.

"Who more tasteful than me?" Hawk said.

"I told her we'd come around and discourage the interlopers," I said. "Maybe see who they represent."

Hawk nodded slowly, still looking at the house. "Bouncer at a whorehouse," Hawk said. "The capstone of my career. We getting paid?"

"Yes."

"How much?"

"We haven't established that yet."

"Free samples?" Hawk said.

"You'll have to negotiate that with the samplees," I said. Hawk shut off the engine and we got out. I had on a sheepskin jacket. Hawk was wearing a black fur coat. It was maybe eight degrees, but not much wind and it didn't feel too bad in the short walk to the front door.

There was a front desk in the high foyer. A good-looking young woman in a tailored suit was at the desk. A discreet sign on the desk said Concierge. She looked a little nervous when we came in. There were doors off the foyer in all directions, and an elegant staircase that curved up toward the second floor.

"My name is Spenser," I said. "For April Kyle."

The concierge looked relieved. She picked up the phone and spoke, and almost at once a door opened behind her and April appeared, looking just as elegant as she had in my office.

"Thank God you're here," she said. "They're coming."

We were in the office. It was spartan. There was a big modern work desk against the back wall. Desks where two women sat working at computers. A bank of file cabinets stood along one wall. There was a bank of television monitors high on the wall above the door.

"For future reference," April said to the office workers, "these are the good guys."

The two women looked at us silently. April didn't introduce us. She was all business, as if stepping into her work space had made her someone else. Hawk and I took off our coats and hung them on a hat rack near the door.

"The monitors are for security cameras," she said. "The one in the center is on the front door."

"Who's coming," I said.

"The man called," April said.

Her voice was flat and didn't sound emotional, except that she spoke very swiftly.

"He said they were tired of waiting. He said they were coming."

"To remonstrate with you?" I said.

"Yes," April said. "He told me this time it would be worse."

"Probably not," I said.

"I won't give in," April said. "I won't. He can't have this."

"What they do last time?" Hawk said.

"They pushed past Doris on the desk, and went through the house interrupting the girls and their guests, chasing the guests out."

"Very bad for business," Hawk said.

"Yes," April said. "Those guests are unlikely to return."

"You have a gun?" I said.

"Yes. But I don't want to use it. I don't want either of you to use one. That would be the end of it if someone got shot here."

"It would," I said.

"This is a good business," April said. "A good woman's business. I'm not going to give it up because some man wants part of it."

Hawk was watching the monitor. "Hidey ho," he said.

April looked up.

"Yea," she said. "That's them."

"You ladies go somewhere," I said to the office workers. They looked at April. April nodded. The two women got up and went out a door behind April's desk.

"How about you, my feminist beauty?" I said.

She smiled. She didn't seem frightened.

"I'll stay," April said.

"Don't blame you," Hawk said. "Be fun to watch."

 
3

 

They    were    both    wearing dark overcoats. On the monitor one of them looked fat. They brushed past the concierge desk and headed for April's office. The door opened and in they came. In person, one of them was fat. The other guy had the thick upper body of a weight lifter.

The weight lifter said, "Time for another talk, whore lady...."

He stopped and looked at Hawk and me. "Who the fuck are you?" he said.

"I often wonder," I said. "Don't you? Sometimes at night when you're alone?"

"You ain't customers'.. the weight lifter said.

The fact that Hawk's coat was off and he was wearing a .44 Magnum in a shoulder holster was probably a clue. They had thought it was going to be another walk in the park. Both of them had their overcoats buttoned up. If they were carrying, it would take them five minutes to get their guns out.

"We be whorehouse security," Hawk said.

He seemed pleasant. Both of the overcoats stared at us. They seemed a little uneasy. Despite the pleasant overtones, Hawk didn't look like a guy who'd surrender easily.

</file>

<file= AmE06_L19>

"It does not appear to be badly bruised," Miss Wilson observed, gathering up her jonquil muslin to crouch in the dust of the carriageway, "but ankles are treacherous, are they not? I once turned mine, while strolling along the Steyne in Brighton, and was forced to enlist the aid of Prinny." 2 Her black eyes sparkled suddenly with mischief. "In point of truth, I had not entirely turned my foot - but I did so long to see the interior of the Pavilion! Very naughty of me, was it not?"
"But then, you are the naughtiest of creatures," Julia Radcliffe volunteered, in a voice that held all the soft caress of finest silk. "You have all our concern and interest, ma'am - but I think perhaps we are de trop in such company. Come along, Harriette!"
Lord Moira lifted his hat to the two Cyprians as they swayed off down the gravel under a single parasol, then said, with delightful perspicacity, "You must be in considerable discomfort, ma'am. May I have the honour of conveying you to your brother's house - or anywhere else in the Kingdom?"
I glanced at Henry, who was looking less anxious than resigned. "You are too good, sir. But the indisposition is very trifling - I am sure that if my brother will lend me his support - "
Henry lifted me to my feet and said, "Lord Moira, I do not think you met my sister in Sloane Street on Tuesday last - may I introduce Miss Jane Austen to your acquaintance?"
"Pleasure." The gentleman bowed over my glove with an audible creak of his stays, while I hung on Henry's arm and endeavoured to look wan.
"My sister is on a visit to London, sir, of several weeks' duration," Henry persisted.
"Indeed? And how do you find the Metropolis, Miss Austen?"
"It is everything that is delightful, sir. My sister, the Comtesse de Feuillide, is unceasing in her efforts to amuse."
"Little Eliza!" Moira's eyes creased with fondness. "I remember her in her first youth, my dear - such a winsome child, and so pretty even in her widowhood.  ...  It was quite a feat, you know, that your brother brought off, in persuading such a flower to be leg-shackled to him. But I perceive that you limp - decidedly you are lame in the right foot - and I cannot allow you to strain the joint further."
"Perhaps a hackney  ...  " I demurred.
"Where is such a conveyance to be found, at this fashionable hour in the Park? No, no - I assure you, it is not the slightest trouble. I should be very happy -  know my way to Sloane Street in the veritable dark - "
I smiled tremulously. "Thank you, my lord. I confess I should be better for the rest. And then I might release my brother - who has been unflagging in his escort, but most anxious to reach his club, for at least an hour past!"
"Jane - " Henry began indignantly.
"Do not apologise, my dear," I assured him. "I know how tiresome females are to a man of affairs, such as yourself. But Lord Moira is all politeness - all consideration. I confess he recalls dear Lord Harold to mind!"
It was perhaps paltry of me to employ my love for the Rogue in such a mean service - but the idle chatter had its effect. The Earl halted in his steps, surveyed me acutely through his quizzing-glass, and said, "Not Lord Harold Trowbridge?"
"A very intimate friend, sir - and a sad loss. You were acquainted with him, I collect?"
"From our school days! By Jove! A friend of Harry's! Not that half the world was not - but still, I should have thought  ...  What a wonder the world is, hey? Let me help you to ascend - "
And thus I was established behind a pair of blood chestnuts to rival the very Highest Flyer's.
Chapter 16
A Comfortable Coze
Friday, 26 April 1811, cont.
∼
"I WAS NEVER MORE ASTONISHED THAN WHEN I learned of Harry's death," Lord Moira observed, as he gathered up the ribbons and flicked his whip-point over the leader's ear. "I recollect exactly where I was at the time: entering a wager in Watier's betting book. There was Henry Vassall - Lord Holland, you know - with his face whiter than the piece of paper he held in his hands, and the news of Harry's death written on it. For a moment I thought old Holland had suffered a fit - whole family's prone to apoplexy, that's how his uncle Fox went - but no. 'Harry's gone,' he said. And, 'What, back to Oporto?' I returned. 'He's been done to death by his valet,' Holland said, 'somewhere down near Portsmouth.'
And even then, my dear, I thought it the queerest turnout ever conceived for Harold Trowbridge. He was the sort of man one expected to die on the duelling ground - not at the hands of some deranged servant."
For an instant, I could feel the Rogue's hands tightening about my own, and the smooth butt of a pistol nestled in my palm. The targets had been placed in the courtyard of the Dolphin Inn, and the ostlers were watching; the meeting was intended for the following dawn. Lord Harold could snuff the flame of a candle with a single ball, he could nick the suit from a playing card at thirty paces; but I had never held a gun before, and should have dropped the thing but for his hand supporting mine.
"He was too fine a shot to end on the duelling ground," I replied. "Treachery - not the defence of honour - was his undoing. Orlando was a Buonapartist spy."
Lord Moira turned his chin to stare at me, a feat all the more remarkable for the height and stiffness of his collar-points. "How well did ye know Harry, Miss Austen?"
"I watched him die, Lord Moira."
My companion uttered an ejaculation, and must have slackened his grip on the reins, for the blood chestnuts showed a disposition to bolt. The Earl was taken up with managing his high-bred cattle in all the confusion of a Hyde Park afternoon, and I was soon too breathless with fear and speed to do more than steel myself to the crash I felt must inevitably come -  but after an interval, the whirl of scenery abated, and I unclenched my hands.
Lord Moira's countenance was red and his lips were clamped tight on all the oaths he must have suppressed; but at length, the severity of expression relaxed, and he said, "Never tell me you're the young woman to whom Harry left that extraordinary bequest?"
"If you would mean the collection of his papers -  then yes, my lord, I am she."
"Good God! And to think that Wilborough -  Harry's brother, the Duke - put up such a stink and fuss! He must never have set eyes upon you, my dear, for how he could think a slip of a female - "
Whatever he might have said, the Earl abruptly forestalled, his face growing if possible more crimson.
" - should be called a doxy? A jade? An unscrupulous vixen? I can well imagine the epithets His Grace might summon. And indeed, my lord, I cannot account for Lord Harold's decision to place his most vital records in my keeping - other than that which he disclosed in a posthumous communication: He wished me to compose his memoirs."
To my surprise, Lord Moira threw back his head and gave a bark of laughter. "His memoirs! In the hands of a delicately-nurtured lady! How rich! Only Harry could fob off such a bit of cajolery on the Great World! My dear Miss Austen - I long to read your account of all our dreadful pasts, indeed I do!"
I placed my gloved hand on the Earl's coat sleeve. "It was my sincere hope," I said earnestly, "that you would assist me in drafting the volume, through the explication of certain political matters I cannot comprehend at all. Tell me, sir - are you at all familiar with the bombardment of Copenhagen? Or the particulars of the Walcheren campaign?"
Lord Moira frowned. "What has any of that to do with Harry? He was in the Peninsula, surely, when the fool's errand was mounted?"
" - By which, I collect, you would refer to Lord Castlereagh's expedition."
"Each of Castlereagh's missteps is very like another," the Earl returned brusquely. "A waste of time, men, and opportunity in the pursuit of a chimera! But I repeat: What had this to do with Harry?"
"It afforded him a good deal of anxiety at the time," I said. "His journal entries for 1808 are replete with references to confusion at the highest levels -  the need for arms and policy in Spain, and the diversion of both to the Baltic - disagreement between the intelligence he received of personal agents in Oporto, and that which was read by others in London - in short, an uneasiness and an apprehension of duplicity."
"Harry had always a nose for the treacherous," the Earl observed, "which is what makes his death such a confounded shame. But I misdoubt that anyone could divine the truth of Portland's government, my dear - it was notable for its confusion."
If his lordship expected me to be content with such pap, he was the more mistaken.
"Lord Harold refers directly to yourself in his private musings. Moira tells me of disputes between Canning and Castlereagh, and fears it will end badly, he wrote. From this I understood you were in some communication with Lord Harold  ...  ?"
The Earl shot the Park gate with admirable precision, all his attention claimed. I did not press him for the moment, anxious lest we should be overturned -  but when the curricle had achieved the relative order of the street, he said: "Do you know what it is to have two horses vying for pride of place in a team, Miss Austen?  - Each one wishing to be leader?"
"I am no driver - but I think I may form an idea of the outcome."
"A runaway gallop - broken traces - the lynchpin smashed and everyone in the carriage thrown into a ditch! That is what we very nearly had in government, while Harry was in Oporto."
"Mr. Canning and Lord Castlereagh being the cattle in question?"
"Naturally. George Canning - who held the Foreign Office - was devilish jealous of the conduct of war in Spain, which ought to have been Castlereagh's province as Minister of War. The two were forever despatching conflicting orders. They had each their own sources of intelligence, and would not admit the other's to be worthy of consideration. They favoured different generals, and sent them on private errands all over the globe. At last Canning encouraged Portland and his fellow Cabinet members to support
Castlereagh's misguided campaign in the Baltic - in the hope it would occupy the War Minister, if not explode in his face. As, indeed, it did. There is a good deal of petty cunning in Cabinet intrigue, Miss Austen - and a good deal of personal vengeance exacted in the name of national cause."
"I thought, from Lord Harold's words, that something more lay behind the jealousy and disputes," I said. "A deliberate intent to confuse events and destroy the nation's chances - from an ardent desire to see Buonaparte win  ...  "
Lord Moira's hands clenched on the reins, and his chestnuts jibbed at the cut of the bit.
"But what you would suggest, Miss Austen  ...  is that someone in government is guilty of treason!"
"Exactly," I replied.
WE WERE ARRIVED IN SLOANE STREET WELL BEFORE I succeeded in convincing my gallant Earl that such perfidy as deliberate sabotage was possible among honourable men. Indeed, I do not think I convinced him of it. Lord Moira was inclined to regret his confidences - his freedom with both speech and memory - and to regard me as an interfering woman. It was only as he helped me to step down from the curricle - and I declared my ankle already mended as a result of his solicitude - that he said, with a visible air of trouble, "I should not regard our conversation, Miss Austen, as of the slightest consequence - the merest exchange of trifling incident between mutual acquaintances of a very singular gentleman. How I wish we still had Harry among us! But alas - "

</file>

<file= AmE06_L20>

Traffic was a nightmare. Traffic is always a nightmare in L.A. Dinosaurs were probably backed
up on the Santa Monica Freeway in the Mesozoic
era. Which means I had plenty of time to put on
my makeup. Heck, I had enough time to do the
makeup for the cast of Phantom of the Opera.
Needless to say, my good mood was history.
I looked crummy and felt crummier. What's
worse, I'd lost all confidence in my ability to help
Rochelle beat her murder rap. What on earth
made me think the cops were going to take me seriously? Suddenly I wasn't even sure Marty was the
killer. All the facts pointed to him, but something
was bothering me. I had this strange feeling that
I'd been given a valuable clue that day, but I couldn't
put my finger on it.
By the time I got off the freeway, I was already
forty-five minutes late. Nothing like getting off to a
great start on my first assignment. I seriously considered turning around and going home. But I'd
come this far; I might as well see it through.
I checked myself out in my rearview mirror and
sighed. No miracle had happened on the ride
over. I still looked like crap. I reached for a tissue
and blotted my lipstick.
Isn't it strange how little things can be so important? If I hadn't blotted my lipstick, I never would've
figured out the truth.
Because when I glanced down at the tissue, that
elusive little clue swimming around in my brain
came bubbling up to the surface. At last I knew
what had been nagging at me - the lottery ticket
I'd found in Pam's purse at lunch that afternoon.
At the time, I'd noticed a red stain on the ticket. I
thought it was the jelly from Pam's donut. But
now, looking down at my tissue, I realized it wasn't
a jelly stain I'd seen on the ticket - but a lipstick blot.
I remembered that first meeting of the PMS
Club, when Marybeth held up her winning lottery
ticket and kissed it. She'd left a candy red lipstick
blot on the ticket. The same blot I'd seen on the
ticket in Pam's purse.
What, I wondered, was Pam doing with Marybeth's
ticket?
Suddenly I felt queasy. A horrible thought struck
me. Could Pam have possibly killed Marybeth for
the $50,000 lottery money? Maybe there was no
Bucko Burger commercial. Maybe the windfall she
was about to receive was from the State of California. Maybe she stole Marybeth's ticket and then
killed her before Marybeth could figure out what
she'd done.
I pulled up to the Stratford and gave my car to a
valet.
"You going to the Chang-Germanetti wedding?"
he asked, eyeing my ghastly bridesmaid gown.
"No, the Union National party."
"Really? You're wearing that to the Union National party? Major fashion boo-boo."
Okay, he didn't really say that. He just shrugged
and said, "Rooftop Terrace."
I headed inside and crossed the lobby of the
venerable old hotel, with its original architectural
moldings and massive crystal chandeliers.
Could it be? I thought, as I rang for the elevator.
Was Pam, my new second-best friend, actually a killer?
But that was impossible. Pam had been by my
side the night of the murder. She never left me,
not for a moment. She was never alone in the
kitchen that night.
But what if Pam was there earlier in the day?
Maybe it was Pam - and not Marty - who'd managed to sneak into the house on the afternoon of
the murder. Rochelle said that the only people
who'd been at the house that day were the plumbers
and the building inspector. Could one of them have
been Pam in disguise?
Pam was, after all, an actress. She had access to
makeup. And Pam was a stocky woman. With a
phony beard or mustache, she might easily pass
for a guy. Hadn't she been a very convincing man
all those years ago in The Odd Couple?
Yes, Pam could have been one of the guys at the
house that day. And Rochelle, distracted as she was
that afternoon, would never have recognized her.
She couldn't have been one of the plumbers,
though. Surely, they would have noticed a stranger
in their midst. But what about the building inspector? What if Pam was the inspector?
When the elevator came, it was empty. The only
other passengers who got on with me were an elderly couple and a room service guy with a cart. I
wasn't surprised it was so deserted. The Union
National employees had probably all shown up
ages ago.
The elevator, like the rest of the hotel, was a relic
from yesteryear, a spacious cabin with burnished
mahogany walls and gleaming brass railings. We
pressed the buttons for our respective floors, and
the elevator began its slow and stately ascent. At
this rate, it would take forever to reach the Rooftop
Terrace, but I was already so late for the party, it
hardly mattered.
Then suddenly I remembered something Pam
had said at lunch today. She'd said Marty probably
doctored the guacamole while Rochelle was preoccupied with the building inspector. How did she know
about the inspector's visit? I'd never mentioned it
to her.
No, Pam knew about the building inspector because she was the building inspector. While she was
upstairs "inspecting" the master bath with Rochelle,
she could've easily invented an excuse to check
something downstairs and dashed to the kitchen
to add a fatal dose of peanut oil to the guacamole.
Oh, God. Pam really was the killer.
The trouble with this case all along was that
everyone in the PMS Club seemed so nice. No one
seemed capable of murder. I knew one of them
had to be acting a part. I just never dreamed it was
the actress.
The elevator stopped on the fourth floor and
the elderly couple got off. The doors slid shut and
I was alone with the room service guy. Strange that
he was on the guest elevator. Didn't waiters usually
ride the service elevators? For the first time I noticed his jacket, and a frisson of fear ran down my
spine. If this was the Stratford Hotel, why did his
lapel say The Plaza? Was that unnaturally black
hair of his actually a wig? And was it my imagination, or was one side of his mustache slightly lower
than the other?
Then I looked down at his hands and saw he was
wearing something room-service guys rarely wear - 
nail polish.
"Pam!" I blurted out, before I could stop myself.
"It's me, all right."
There was a manic gleam in her eyes that froze
my blood. Gone were all traces of the friendly
woman I'd met at the Bargain Barn.
"Too bad you had to drop my purse today. Once
you saw the lottery ticket, I knew it was only a matter of time before you figured things out. So I
rented this costume and took a chance I'd get you
alone in the elevator. Guess I lucked out, huh?"
And with that, she tossed aside the metal cover
from the room service tray, to reveal a butcher
knife.
Oh, Lord. It was big enough to gut a whale.
Frantic, I sprinted for the control panel to push
the alarm button, but before I could reach it, Pam
yanked me back by my ponytail and hurled me
against the wall. I howled in pain.
She was stronger than me. A lot stronger.
"Don't be crazy," I said, holding my throbbing
head. "The elevator could stop any minute. What
if someone sees you?"
"They won't see me. They'll see a deranged
room service waiter." She picked up the knife and
I felt a wave of bile rise in my throat. "When they
find your body, they'll think a man did it. Maybe
even Marty. Don't forget. I've got that paper you
signed this afternoon blaming him for your murder."
I cursed myself for writing that damn statement.
Thanks to my stupidity, Pam was going to get away
with murder - twice.
But I couldn't just stand there and let her slice
me open like a Benihana chef. I had to keep her
talking and somehow get that ghastly knife away
from her.
"I don't understand," I said. "Why did you have
to kill Marybeth? Couldn't you have just stolen the
ticket?"
"She saw me take it from her purse. The bitch
had eyes in the back of her head. She threatened
to tell everybody. Can you imagine? Telling everyone that I was a thief?"
I refrained from pointing out that's exactly what
she was.
"I gave her a sob story about how sorry I was
and begged her not to say anything. She said she
wouldn't, but I knew that sooner or later she'd
blab. And until then, she'd torture me with the
threat of exposure every chance she got. She'd
enjoy that. And besides, I wanted that fifty grand.
You may not mind shopping at the Bargain Barn,
honey, but I'm sick of it.
"So you see," she said, her knife poised to attack, "I had no choice. Just like I don't have any
choice now. Which is really too bad. I tried to warn
you, you know."
"By putting those nails under my tires?"
"I thought for sure that would scare you off. It's
a shame you were so damn persistent. Now I have
to kill you. What a pity. I like you, Jaine. We
could've been friends."
"Can't we still be friends? I won't tell anyone; I
promise. Marybeth deserved to die. You were
doing the world a favor. And I'm sure Rochelle's
lawyers will get her off on a technicality. Let's forget about this silly murder thing and head on over
to Ben & Jerry's."
"You don't really think I'm going to fall for that,
do you?"
No, actually I didn't, but it had given me time to
inch over to the metal lid she'd tossed on the
floor. I grabbed it now and swung it with all my
might, knocking the knife from her hands.
As I lunged for the knife, she lunged for me,
grabbing me by the train of my bridesmaid dress. I
heard the rip of the seams, already thisclose to bursting, as they tore apart. Then, just as I was about to
grab the knife, I felt a searing pain in my legs as Pam
rammed me with the room service cart and sent
me sprawling to the floor.
Before I knew it, she was on top of me, frantically searching for the knife, which had disappeared from sight, hidden somewhere under the
mountains of chiffon in my dress. At least the dratted dress was good for something. We spent what
felt like centuries but was probably only seconds
clawing at each other, my dress now completely
torn from my body.
By this time I was screaming for help at the top
of my lungs. Where the hell were all the people in
this hotel anyway? Couldn't anybody hear me?
Then, to my horror, I saw Pam retrieve the knife
from under a pile of chiffon.
"Sorry, Jaine," she said, holding it aloft. "Oh,
and by the way, thanks again for the resume."
Then, just as she was about to plunge the knife
into my chest, the elevator door dinged open, and
we were on the rooftop terrace, surrounded by a
crowd of gaping Union National employees. Thank
heavens. Someone had heard me.
The next thing I knew, a couple of security
guards were prying Pam off me and hauling her
away. And then the hunkalicious Andrew Ferguson stepped out of the crowd and kneeled down
next to me.
"I've heard of bad room service," he said, "but
that was ridiculous. Are you okay?"
Was I okay?? Of course I wasn't okay!! I was lying
there in front of half the staff of Union National
Bank, practically naked in my waist-nipper pantyhose and Reeboks!
"Yes," I managed to say. "I'm okay."

</file>

<file= AmE06_L21>

CHAPTER 1

Friday, July 2
Eppley Airport
Omaha, Nebraska

Monsignor William O'Sullivan was certain no one had recognized him. So why was his forehead damp? He hadn't gone through the security checkpoint yet. Instead, he had decided to wait until it got closer to his flight time. Just in case someone did recognize him. On this side, he could still pretend to be picking up a colleague rather than admit he was leaving.

He fidgeted in the plastic chair, clutching the leather portfolio closer to his chest. So close, so tight it seemed to crush his lungs, causing that pain again, a pain he may have dismissed too quickly as heartburn. But of course, it was only heartburn. He simply wasn't used to eating such a large meal for lunch, but he knew the flight to New York and the later one to Rome would include cardboard renditions of food, causing much more damage to his overly sensitive stomach than Sophia's leftover meat loaf and mashed potatoes did.

Yes, surely the leftovers were responsible for his discomfort, he told himself, and yet his eyes darted around the busy airport terminal, looking for a bathroom. He remained seated, not wanting to move until he examined and found an acceptable path. He shoved a thumb and index finger up under his wire-rim glasses to dig the fatigue out of his eyes, and then he began his search again.

He'd avoid the shortest route, not wanting to pass the exotic black woman handing out "reading material" - as she called it - to anyone too polite to say no. She wore colorful beads in her hair, what looked like her Sunday best dress with splashes of purple that made her hips even larger, but sensible shoes. Her smooth, deep voice almost made it a song when she asked, "Can I offer you some reading material?" And to everyone - including those who huffed their responses and rushed by - she greeted them with yet another melodic, polite stanza, "You have a most pleasant day."

Monsignor O'Sullivan knew what her reading material was without seeing it. He supposed she was a sort of present-day missionary, in her own right. If he passed her, would she sense their connection? Both of them ministers, distributors of God's word. One in sensible shoes, another with a portfolio stuffed with secrets.

Better to avoid her.

He checked the Krispy Kreme counter. A long line of zombies waited patiently for their afternoon dose of energy, like drug addicts getting one more shot before their flight. To his right he watched the bookstore entrance, quickly glancing away when a young man in a baseball cap looked in his direction. Had the youth recognized him, despite his street clothes? His stomach churned while his eyes studied his shoes. His cotton-knit polo - a gift from his sister - was now sticking to his wet back. Over the loudspeakers came the repetitive message, warning travelers not to leave their luggage unattended. He clutched the portfolio, only now discovering that his palms were also slick with sweat. How in the world had he believed he could just leave without being noticed? That he could just get on a plane and be free, be absolved of all his indiscretions.

But when Monsignor O'Sullivan dared to look again, the young man was gone. Passengers rushed by without a glance. Even the black woman greeting and passing out her reading material seemed totally unaware of his presence.

Paranoid. He was just being paranoid. Thirty-seven years of dedication to the church and what did he get for it? Accusations and finger-pointing when he deserved accolades of respect and gratitude. When he tried to explain his predicament to his sister, the anger had overwhelmed him, and all he had managed to tell her in their brief conversation was to have the title of the family's estate changed to her name only. "I won't let those bastards take our home."

He wished he were there now. It was nothing extravagant - a two-story split-timber on three acres in the middle of Connecticut, with walking trails surrounded by trees and mountains and sky. It was the only place he felt closest to God, and the irony made him smile. The irony that beautiful cathedrals and huge congregations had led him further and further away from God.

A squawk coming from near the escalator startled him back to reality. It sounded like a tropical bird, but was instead a toddler in full temper tantrum, his mother pulling him along, unfazed, as if she couldn't hear the screech. It grated on Monsignor O'Sullivan's nerves, scratching them raw and resetting the tension so tight in his jaw that he feared he'd start grinding his teeth. It was enough to get him to his feet. He no longer cared about accessible paths, and he made his way to the restroom.

Thankfully, it was empty, yet he glanced under every stall to make certain. He set the portfolio at his feet, leaning it against his left leg, as if needing to maintain some contact. He removed his glasses and placed them on the corner of the sink. Then, avoiding his own blurred reflection, he waved his hands under the faucet, his frustration fueled by the lack of response. He swiped his hands back and forth, finally eliciting a short burst of water, barely wetting his fingertips. He swiped again. Another short burst. This time he closed his eyes and splashed as much as he could on his face, the cool dampness beginning to calm his nausea, beginning to quiet the sudden throbbing in his temples.

His hands groped for the paper-towel dispenser, ripping off more than he needed and gently dabbing, disgusted by the smell and harsh feel of the recycled paper. He hadn't even heard the bathroom door open. When he glanced in the mirror, Monsignor O'Sullivan was startled to see a blurred figure standing behind him.

"I'm almost finished," he said, thinking he might be in the way, though there were other sinks. Why did he need to use this one? He noticed a faint metallic odor. Perhaps it was a member of the cleaning crew. An impatient one at that. He reached for his glasses, accidentally knocking them to the floor. Before he could bend down to retrieve them, an arm came around his waist. All he saw was a glint of silver. Then he felt the burn, the streak of pain, shooting up through his chest.

At the same time there was a whisper in his right ear - soft and gentle. "You're already finished, Monsignor O'Sullivan."

CHAPTER 2

Washington, D.C.

There was no easy way to pick up a human head.

At least that's what Special Agent Maggie O'Dell had decided. She watched the scene below and sympathized with the young crime lab technician. Maggie wondered if that was exactly what he was thinking as he squatted in the mud, looking at it from yet another angle. Even Detective Julia Racine remained quiet, standing over him, but unable to offer any of her regular advice. It was the quietest Maggie had ever seen the detective.

Stan Wenhoff, chief medical examiner for the District, yelled down an instruction or two, but stayed beside Maggie on top of the embankment, not making any attempt to find a way down. Actually Maggie was surprised to see Stan on a Friday afternoon, especially at the beginning of a holiday weekend. Normally he would have sent one of his deputies, except that he wouldn't want to miss out on making headlines. And this case would certainly start making headlines now.

Maggie looked beyond the riverbank, out at the water and the city on the other side. Despite the usual terror alerts, the District was preparing for the weekend festivities, expecting sunny skies and cooler-than-average temperatures. Not that she had any big plans beyond lounging in the backyard with Harvey. She'd throw a couple of steaks on the grill, read the latest Jeffery Deaver.

She tucked a strand of hair behind her ear though the breeze immediately tugged another one free. Yes, it was an absolutely beautiful summer day, except for the decapitated head someone had discarded on the muddy riverbank. What level of evil did it take to slice another person's head completely off and leave it like a piece of trash? Her friend, Gwen Patterson, accused her of having an obsession with evil. Maggie didn't look at it so much as an obsession as an age-old quest. She had decided long ago that it was part of her job to root out evil and destroy it.

"Finish going through the surrounding surface," Stan called down. "Then just scoop it up into a bag."

Maggie glanced at Stan. Scoop it up? Easy for him to say from up here where his polished shoes were safe and the waft of death hadn't yet arrived. But even from above, Maggie could see it was a daunting task. The riverbank was littered with cans and discarded take-out containers and wrappers. She knew the area - this stretch under the overpass - well enough to know there were also cigarette butts, condoms and a needle or two. The killer had taken a risk, discarding the head in such a well-trafficked area.

Ordinarily Maggie would find herself assessing that risk as the killer's apparent disorganization. Taking risks could amount to simple panic. But since this was the third head to show up in the District in three weeks, Maggie knew this had little to do with panic and everything to do with the killer's twisted strategy.

"You mind if I come down and take a closer look?" Maggie called down.

Racine shrugged. "Help yourself," she said, but she came to the bottom of the embankment and offered her arm for leverage. Maggie waved her off.

She searched instead for anything - branches, rocks, roots - to hang on to. There was nothing but river mud and tall grass. She didn't have much choice but to slip and slide. Like a skier without poles, she tried to keep her balance, managing to stay on her feet, skidding past Racine, but stopping within inches of ending up in the Potomac.

Racine shook her head, a slight smirk on her lips, but thankfully didn't say anything. Maggie didn't need to be reminded that perhaps she went a bit overboard when it came to Racine, not wanting to accept any favors, or worse, feel she needed to repay a debt. She and Racine had had enough challenges and obstacles in the last several years. And more importantly, they were even. That's where Maggie wanted to leave it.

Maggie tried to clean her shoes of the clumps of mud, rubbing them against the tall grass, not wanting to bring any more foreign particles to the scene. Her leather flats would be ruined. She was careless about shoes, often forgetting her slip-on boots. Gwen constantly warned her that her treatment of shoes bordered on irreverence. It reminded Maggie of Stan's shiny, polished ones, and she glanced back up the embankment, noticing that he had backed away from the edge. Was he worried she may have started a mud slide, or did he want to make sure no one expected him to follow her path? Either way, she knew he wouldn't be coming down.

Julia Racine caught Maggie looking up.

"Heaven forbid he gets his shoes dirty," Racine said under her breath as if reading Maggie's thoughts. But her eyes and attention quickly returned to the decapitated head as she added, "It's got to be the same killer. But we may have gotten lucky this time."

Maggie had only recently seen pieces of the case files on the other two heads. This was her first invitation to the crime scene, now that Racine and Chief Henderson suspected they might have a serial killer on their hands.

"Why lucky?" Maggie finally asked when it became obvious that's what Racine was waiting for. Some things never changed, like Racine demanding everyone's attention before she announced her brilliant theories.

"Getting that tip allowed us to get here before the critters finished their snack. The other two were down to the bone. We still haven't been able to identify them."

</file>

<file= AmE06_L22>

She set her elbows on the breakfast island and sipped at her coffee. She'd chosen to wear an old pair of jeans and a ratty Michigan State Spartans sweatshirt. She wasn't sure what sort of statement she was trying to make, but at least she felt comfortable.

Armen, of course, still wore his "I throw peanuts at old ladies" muscle shirt. Somehow it looked as if he wore it for the first time that morning. He even smelled fresh. Bonnie had earlier snuck a whiff when she reached across him for syrup.

"I throw peanuts at old ladies?" She stared at his shirt across her coffee cup.

He slapped the words on his chest. "You like it? My homeroom got together and bought the shirt for my birthday."

He may as well have said, "I'm donating a kidney to an orphaned child." As far as Bonnie was concerned, there were few things more sacred than the gifts of students. She knew teachers who didn't feel as she did who relegated student gifts to deep drawers, or even tossed them away outright. No doubt, these people are soulless. Yet here sat a man who treasured a student gift so much he wore it away from school.

"Do they consider you someone who bedevils elderly women?" She tried to keep admiration out of her voice. "Am I going to have to watch out for you whenever you have a peanut in your hand?"

Armen stroked his mustache like a villain from some cheesy melodrama. "First of all, the shirt says old ladies. You hardly qualify. Secondly, my homeroom is seventh-graders. Who knows what goes on in their minds? There are days when I'm not sure they and I are members of the same species."

He rubbed the shirt message with the palm of his hand. "Still, they did good. It's a great shirt. I hoped you would like it."

"I love it." In that moment, she realized Armen had worn the shirt as a bit of a test. What would have happened if she hadn't liked it?

"What's on the agenda?" He picked up his coffee cup and walked it to the sink. He swished some water in it and set it to dry in the drainer.

The set of motions was so natural Bonnie had no doubt Armen kept his house meticulous. And he makes French toast as well. Be still, my beating heart.

"I need a shower, and I need to get Alice to a garage somewhere. Otherwise I have no way to get to work on Monday." She expected him to volunteer to take her.

He merely nodded. "Tell me exactly what happened when Alice stalled out." He stared at her, chewing the beard surrounding his lower lip.

She told him.

He listened without interruption, grunting at key points in her narrative. When she finished, he asked, "The gas pedal went spongy all at once, or has it been getting that way over time?"

She had to think. Alice had been having problems since the invention of rope, so Bonnie needed to isolate this particular malady. "The pedal's gone weird before."

"Had you tried fluttering it?"

The man was a mind reader. "How did you know?

Yes, and it even worked, but not this time."

Armen nodded, looking pensive. "Do you mind if I take a look while you take your shower?"

She shot him a mischievous smile. "Mister Callahan?"

He went red from his neck to his hairline. "I meant at the car." A smile crept onto his face. "Although - "

"Never you mind." She returned his smile. "You sure you want to get into Alice's engine? She's pretty dirty." Bonnie couldn't imagine anything she'd rather avoid than poking around the greasy innards of an old car.

"You just take your shower."

In the master bathroom, Bonnie stripped down and regarded her reflection in the vanity mirror. "You hardly qualify," Armen had said when she referred to herself as an old lady.

He couldn't mean her steelgray hair. That dropped her solidly into the old lady camp. She'd stopped dying it since Ben's death, and in the last year and a half, gray had chased off all other colors except white.

Her face, except for laugh lines around her eyes and mouth, remained as it had for the last twenty years. She was proud of those lines. Ben had liked her face, used to kiss her laugh lines, saying they were evidences of every joke he'd ever told her. She pushed that bittersweet memory aside and let her gaze travel to her breasts and stomach.

I guess one of the benefits of starting off flat-chested is that you don't give gravity a whole lot to work with. She laid the palm of her hand on her smooth stomach. Years of hiking the mountain trails around Colorado Springs had kept her fit. Her muscled thighs and calves were proof of that.

Leaning heavily on one crutch, she flexed her bicep and mugged in the mirror. Not bad. At least, she didn't have that jiggling business hanging beneath her arm. Maybe she wasn't such an old lady after all.

She decided not to inspect her backside, thinking she should quit while she was ahead. Leave well enough alone, Bonnie.

It took forever and more than a little self-pity to remove the plastic boot.

After a labored effort involving sponges, wet and slippery crutches, and a lot of cursing, she emerged from the shower bedraggled but clean. She promised herself when she no longer needed the accursed crutches she'd have a ceremony to burn them. Maybe she'd give the damn things to Rhiannon for next year's balefire.

Dressed in the same sweatshirt and jeans she'd worn for breakfast, she slid open the bedroom door. Armen stood at the kitchen sink washing his hands. Patches of grease streaked both arms and a long smear extended from his cheek, through his beard, and down his neck. A tiny speck even adorned one earlobe.

He squirted some dishwashing liquid onto a paper towel and scrubbed his elbows. He offered her a big you should be proud of me smile. "Your fuel filter was full of gook from a filthy gas tank. I pulled the filter off - little plastic and screen doohickey - rinsed it out with gasoline from your lawnmower gas can, and hooked the filter back up again. You should have seen the crud that came out."

He tapped his ear. "Listen."

At first Bonnie didn't hear anything, and then the drone of an engine rose above the other outside noises.

"Is that - ?"

"Alice, the little engine that could?" He nodded, and his grin widened. "You bet your sweet bippy. I think you should get that ancient gas tank of yours flushed, or you're going have this problem again. Also, you might have a problem with your fuel pump, but we can put one of those on later."

The use of the word "we" wasn't lost on Bonnie. It felt comfortable, a good fit, at least for the moment. "You're amazing, Mister Callahan."

Armen spread wide his hands in a gesture that was supposed to indicate, "Shucks, 'twern't nothing, Ma'am."

That, coupled with the grease on his face, made him look like a five-year-old in a fake beard playing at being an adult. A part of Bonnie wanted to hobble over and throw her arms around him. She resisted the temptation. Instead, she took the paper towel from his hand. She squirted on more Dawn and worked the towel into lather.

"Hold still. You have a monster smudge on your face, and I don't want to get soap in your eye." She set her crutches against the breakfast island and took a stool. "Come here."

"Yes, ma'am." He dropped his hands to his side and closed his eyes - once again the child, this time trusting the capable hands of an adult.

The closeness of him made her uneasy, lent a slight tremble to her hand. More than once while she tended him she had to swallow. He must have felt her hand shake, but never did he open his eyes or change his expression. She saved the earlobe for last and gave a token to the voice that wanted her to take him in her arms.

She kissed the clean earlobe and whispered, "Thank you."

He stepped back and opened his eyes. "You're welcome, Bonnie."

The way he said her name made her shiver. The saying held the promise of intimacy, of shared confidences and laughter. For a long moment they stood there, captive in one another's gaze. Then the moment passed. The look she offered him was a mixture of apology and embarrassment. The look he returned said he understood.

He handed her the crutches. "Come on. Let's get you reacquainted with Alice."

BONNIE AND ARMEN PULLED ALICE INTO THE SCHOOL parking lot around ten-thirty. The plan was to first swing by the school and pick up the fanny pack. Even if Armen didn't see the point of cell phones, Bonnie couldn't go another day without hers. Once she had her phone, she'd sit down and call Wendy Newlin, make sure the woman was okay, maybe even drop in if Wendy needed company. Later, they'd go see Donna Poole at the hospice.

When they reached Bonnie's classroom the phone was ringing. Bonnie surprised herself with how fast she could motor on her new crutches, beating Armen across the room to her desk. She latched onto the phone a split second before Armen could apprehend it. She stuck out her tongue at him and raised the phone to her ear. "City Dump."

"Nice." Franklin Valsecci chuckled. "You're developing a sense of humor."

"I've always had a sense of humor, youngster. You've just never appreciated it." She leaned the crutches against the desk and sat atop it. The effort left her breathless. "What can I do you for?"

"Just being a responsible civil servant and following up on last night's incident."

"Tell me you're not at Jade Hill. Franklin, don't you have any kind of social life?"

"Thank you so much for that cruel and unnecessary intrusion into my business. Especially since I'm taking time out of my demanding schedule to keep you in the loop." He sighed, a long drawn out affair that spoke of long hours and little sleep. "Yes, I'm here at the precinct. Missus P, I've got what might be a double homicide on my hands - if you consider a worse case scenario with Peyton Newlin. Now, if you're not interested in what I've got to say . . ."

She shifted the phone to her other ear. "Hold on. Of course I'm interested. Would it help if I said I'm sorry?"

"I'm not certain. You haven't said it yet."

It was her turn to sigh. "I'm sorry. Sheesh. You're a fine one to talk about a sense of humor."

A long silence hung in the air. "I guess that's as good as I'm going to get. Okay, here it is. You got my message last night?"

"Uh huh."

"Like I said on the message, we only took Jesse Poole in for questioning since he had a slew of witnesses who swear he never left the hospital. We had to let him go."

Bonnie shifted uneasily on the desktop, unable to get comfortable. She didn't want to hear where this conversation was going. "But I saw him. I'd know that truck anywhere."

"I believe you, but I've got a problem. The truck was in the parking lot when we came for Jesse. So here's the million dollar question. Did you actually see the driver of the vehicle?"

She felt heat rise to her cheeks. Armen gave her an inquiring look, but she held back any questions with a wave of her hand. "The cab was dark and a bright light was shining in my eyes. I didn't see the driver."

Franklin must have heard the despair in her voice because he came back quickly. "Don't open a vein just yet. How about the license plate?"

</file>

<file= AmE06_L23>

'Not sign of him nor any word. Master Weir has been up and down the street asking after him." Master Naylor paused. Frevisse could almost see the question he was chewing over before, not sounding much as if he wanted to, he asked, "What do you mean to do about this Master Weir and his uncle being Jews? Since I doubt Master Grene will do aught, now the friar is dead."

'I mean to do nothing."

'Nothing?"

'Now they've been found out, they'll leave and not come back, surely."

'It could have been the uncle who killed the friar."

'Do you think it was?"

Master Naylor gave her one of his long-faced looks. "If he had, my thought is he'd have finished the matter by coming in after his nephew and had him out of here, one way or another."

'That's my thought, too."

'So we do nothing about them? Despite they're Jews?"

'We welcome Master Weir's help while he sees Master Grene through this trouble. Then he goes and doesn't come back. That will be enough."

Master Naylor considered that before saying, "Aye. That would be my choice. There's trouble enough without making more."

'Is there any talk of Cade being forced out of London?"

'There's been some word running that way, yes."

'Will London do it, do you think?"

'Who knows with Londoners?" Master Naylor said and went away.

And the waiting went on, into the beginning of the long summer evening, with the clear sky colored rose and cream by the westering sun and fear beginning to twist inside of Frevisse that after all London would not rise against Cade. Not today anyway.

And then the waiting was done.

Anne, in the parlor with her then, knew it was Daved on the stairs and was on her feet and going to him, her hands out, as he came into the parlor. He met her as readily, clasping her outstretched hands, pulling her to him, wrapping his arms around her in an embrace she returned as fully as she returned his kiss.

Frevisse waited where she was, and when they had done, he set Anne back from him and ordered with edged excitement, "Best bring Mistress Hercy to hear, too."

Anne went immediately into the bedchamber, leaving Frevisse and Daved to each other, neither of them saying anything because there was nothing to be said in the few moments before Anne returned with Mistress Hercy, who went straight to Daved, looking ten years older than she had yesterday but asking firmly as she came, "Is it time?"

'Lord Scales is out of the Tower with his men, headed for the bridge, and the mayor and aldermen have called up the wards and are moving to join him against Cade."

'God save us all," Mistress Hercy breathed, signing herself with the cross.

Frevisse and Anne copied her. Daved did not, only went on, "Cade heard something was afoot and spent the afternoon drawing his men out of London, back into Southwark. He probably hoped that if he showed good faith that way, he could go back to dealing with the mayor and all again, but London means to take back the bridge and gates. That's where the fight will be, at the far end of the bridge."

'Will that be enough to let you do ...  this thing?" Mistress Hercy asked.

'There's still trouble enough scattered through the streets, with straggles of rebels and London troublemakers in plenty and likely more at it once night falls."

'When will you do it?" Mistress Hercy asked.

'As soon as it's full dark."

A burst of rabbled noise, muffled by buildings rather than distance, swung all their heads toward the southward window. It might have been anything, but as the sound rose into a clamor that could only be of men meeting with weapons and in anger, Daved said, "It's started. What I need from you now, Mistress Hercy, is to come with me to tell your household men they can go out to the fight. They're jumping out of their skins with wanting to. They won't pause. The street barriers are still manned, so they're not needed here. I've already spoken to the Naylors and agreed they'll keep the foregate, and me the back. Once you have the women up here, it's only a matter of waiting until I judge it's dark enough to go."

Unexpectedly Anne said, "I'll come be watch for you in the house and at the gate."

Daved paused, then gave a single, sharp nod. "When the first star shows, come."

Mistress Hercy pressed a hand over her mouth, her breathing suddenly gone rapid and shallow. She had maybe been looking aside all day from what they meant to do and now was seeing it clearly for the ugly thing it was - a man's body taken out and left somewhere like a dead, unwanted dog's. Even Raulyn's and despite he was dead because of her. But Frevisse had never looked aside, and when she met Daved's level gaze, their understanding measured and matched each other's, both of them knowing the only thing worse than doing the thing would be not to do it.

No, worse would be to attempt it and fail.

And hiding her own other thoughts, Frevisse asked, "We're ready, then?"

Mistress Hercy drew a long breath, steadied, and said, "Yes."

Anne only nodded, wordless.

Daved, with a warm certainty that both lifted them and carried them forward, said, "Good then. Remember, my ladies, what's done is done. Let's do the rest and be done with all. Mistress Hercy, I told the household men I'd come to plead your leave to let them go. Pray, come now and give it."

Mistress Hercy gave a crisp, assenting nod and sailed past him toward the stairs as if she had never faltered. Daved followed her, and Anne watched him go before turning away to the window overlooking the yard again. Frevisse joined her there, and in silence they watched the household's men, clubs in hand, stream down from the hall and away across the yard and out the gateway. "Done," Anne said; and added without looking around, "You'll have to be the one who sees to Pernell."

'And now, I think," Frevisse said, because the women were already chattering up the stairs, and even if all else had escaped Pernell, that would want explanation. But she found that all else had not escaped Pernell. She and Lucie were together at the bedchamber window, worried over what they were hearing from the bridge without being certain what it was.

When Frevisse told her, though, Pernell was more pleased than alarmed, saying, "Thanks be to God it's going to end," and with a hand on her belly and the other braced on the seat, lowered herself to sit there at the window. "That's where Raulyn has been all the day, then. Helping to ready the ward for this. He might have sent me word. Why are men so single-witted?"

She seemed not to expect an answer, and Frevisse, her choice either a lie or silence, chose silence.

From here nothing of the bridge was to be seen, and the distant clash and formless shouting of the fighting told little of what was going on, except it came no nearer, sign that thus far the Londoners must be holding their own. In the parlor the women talked, but in the bedchamber there was little to say and less to do, and finally Lucie curled up on the bed in all her clothing and went to sleep. Pernell soon lay down, too, saying, "I'll only rest a while," but shortly her breathing likewise evened into sleep, and Frevisse, still at the window, was alone with her own thoughts. Full dark was come. More stars than only the first were out. By now Daved must have Raulyn's body out of the house, was likely even quit of it. And then he'd be away, soon to be quit of England, too, and back to his true life.

But which was his true life? He lived in lies so many-layered, did he even know anymore which of his lives was true, which one a lie? She had known people who had come to think the lies they lived in were their truth. Did Daved live so deeply in his lies, they were become his truth?

She laid her hand over the pouch still hung about her neck under her gowns. So many lies. And some of them hers.

So many lies. So many deaths. So many deceptions and treacheries. So much greed and fear. And love.

Frevisse folded her hands into her lap and bowed her head and prayed for the love there was between Anne Blakhall and Daved, for the men fighting on London bridge - those still alive and those already dead - and for Raulyn's doomed, damned soul.

She did not know how much later it was that an outcry among the women in the other room made her raise her head, first looking around to the bed to be sure Pernell and Lucie, for a mercy, still slept; then out the window where she saw the orange glow of fire off a black roil of smoke blotting out the sky above London bridge. The bridge was on fire. In the other room, after their first outcry, the other women's voices went on, hushed and strained. Mistress Hercy came briefly into the bedchamber to be sure of the sleepers, then came to Frevisse and said in a whisper, "He must be away by now."

'Long since," Frevisse agreed.

Mistress Hercy stood a little longer, looking out at the fire-stained smoke, then went away, leaving Frevisse to her thoughts and watching. To her relief in a while it was clear that the fire was not spreading; and by the time the eastern sky was well-paled toward dawn, the battle-clamor had lessened; and by the time full daylight was come there was nothing left to hear but a few distant shouts and nothing to see but a drift of grey smoke thinning across the sky. The rebels had not won their way back into London.

By then Pernell and Lucie were awake and Mistress Hercy had brought in their breakfast tray and the news that all the household's men were come lag-footed home, tired and dirty but no wounds among them, and all the women were in the kitchen with them, feeding them and demanding to hear about everything. The last Frevisse heard as she slipped out to the parlor was Mistress Hercy saying, "No, not Raulyn yet, dear. Give him time."

Eating without much interest the dry bread and cheese waiting for her in the parlor, Frevisse found herself fervently hoping Master Naylor would soon say the streets were safe enough for her to return to St. Helen's. Cowardly though it might be, she wanted to be away from here before Raulyn's body was found.

She had done eating when Anne came slow-footed into the room. Like Mistress Hercy, she looked older. Frevisse had meant to say nothing to her, but with her discretion weighed down under her tiredness she said, "You didn't go with him."

Going slowly to the window seat where she had sat so much of these few days, Anne sat again and only then, as if she had just heard Frevisse's words, said softly, "No, I didn't go with him."

Not able to ask if she understood how small was the likelihood he would ever come back to her, Frevisse found herself saying, meaning it, "I am most sorry things are as they are."

Anne raised her head and looked out the window. Tears shimmered in her eyes, and her gaze was inward-turned to some place deep inside herself; but calmly and with a pride that came from that far inward place she said, "Whatever else, I am his eishet chayil. That will have to do." And took up the embroidery lying there unfinished and began to sew.

</file>

<file= AmE06_L24>

Chapter 1
he missing girl - there had been unceasing news reports, always
flashing to that achingly ordinary school portrait of the vanished
teen, you know the one, with the rainbow-swirl background, the
girl's hair too straight, her smile too self-conscious, then a quick cut to
the worried parents on the front lawn, microphones surrounding
them, Mom silently tearful, Dad reading a statement with quivering
lip - that girl, that missing girl, had just walked past Edna Skylar.
Edna froze.
Stanley, her husband, took two more steps before realizing that his
wife was no longer at his side. He turned around. "Edna?"
They stood near the corner of Twenty-first Street and Eighth Avenue in New York City. Street traffic was light this Saturday morning.
Foot traffic was heavy. The missing girl had been headed uptown.
Stanley gave a world-weary sigh. "What now?"
"Shh."
She needed to think. That high school portrait of the girl, the one
with the rainbow-swirl background . . . Edna closed her eyes. She
needed to conjure up the image in her head. Compare and contrast.
In the photograph, the missing girl had long, mousy-brown hair.
The woman who'd just walked by - woman, not girl, because the one
who'd just walked by seemed older, but maybe the picture was old
too - was a redhead with a shorter, wavy cut. The girl in the photograph
did not wear glasses. The one who was heading north up Eighth Avenue had on a fashionable pair with dark, rectangular frames. Her
clothes and makeup were both more - for a lack of a better word - 
adult.
Studying faces was more than a hobby with Edna. She was sixtythree years old, one of the few female physicians in her age group who
specialized in the field of genetics. Faces were her life. Part of her brain
was always working, even when far away from her office. She couldn't
help it - Dr. Edna Skylar studied faces. Her friends and family were
used to the probing stare, but strangers and new acquaintances found
it disconcerting.
So that was what Edna had been doing. Strolling down the street.
Ignoring, as she often did, the sights and sounds. Lost in her own personal bliss of studying the faces of passersby. Noting cheek structure
and mandibular depth, inter-eye distance and ear height, jaw contours
and orbital spacing. And that was why, despite the new hair color and
style, despite the fashionable glasses and adult makeup and clothing,
Edna had recognized the missing girl.
"She was walking with a man."
"What?"
Edna hadn't realized that she'd spoken out loud.
"The girl."
Stanley frowned. "What are you talking about, Edna?"
That picture. That achingly ordinary school portrait. You've seen it
a million times. You see it in a yearbook and the emotions start to
churn. In one fell swoop, you see her past, you see her future. You feel
the joy of youth, you feel the pain of growing up. You can see her potential there. You feel the pang of nostalgia. You see her years rush by,
college maybe, marriage, kids, all that.
But when that same photograph is flashed on your evening news, it
skewers your heart with terror. You look at that face, at that tentative
smile, at the droopy hair and slumped shoulders, and your mind goes
to dark places it shouldn't.
How long had Katie - that was the name, Katie - how long had she
been missing?
Edna tried to remember. A month probably. Maybe six weeks. The
story had only played locally and not for all that long. There were those
who believed that she was a runaway. Katie Rochester had turned eighteen a few days before the disappearance - that made her an adult and
thus lowered the priority a great deal. There was supposed trouble at
home, especially with her strict albeit quivering-lipped father.
Maybe Edna had been mistaken. Maybe it wasn't her.
One way to find out.
"Hurry," Edna said to Stanley.
"What? Where are we going?"
There was no time to reply. The girl was probably a block ahead by
now. Stanley would follow. Stanley Rickenback, an ob-gyn, was Edna's
second husband. Her first had been a whirlwind, a larger-than-life figure too handsome and too passionate and, oh yeah, an absolute ass.
That probably wasn't fair, but so what? The idea of marrying a doctor - 
this was forty years ago - had been a fun novelty for Husband One. The
reality, however, had not sat as well with him. He had figured that Edna
would outgrow the doc phase once they had children. Edna didn't - 
just the opposite, in fact. The truth was - a truth that had not escaped
her children - Edna loved doctoring more than motherhood.
She rushed ahead. The sidewalks were crowded. She moved into
the street, staying close to the curb, and sped up. Stanley tried to follow.
"Edna?"
"Just stay with me."
He caught up. "What are we doing?"
Edna's eyes searched for the red hair.
There. Up ahead on the left.
She needed to get a closer look. Edna broke into a full-fledged
sprint now, a strange sight in most places, a nicely dressed woman in
her mid-sixties sprinting down the street, but this was Manhattan. It
barely registered a second glance.
She circled in front of the woman, trying not to be too obvious,
ducking behind taller people, and when she was in the right place,
Edna spun around. The possible-Katie was walking toward her. Their
eyes met for the briefest of moments, and Edna knew.
It was her.
Katie Rochester was with a dark-haired man, probably in his early
thirties. They were holding hands. She did not seem too distressed.
She seemed, in fact, up until the point where their eyes met anyway,
pretty content. Of course that might not mean anything. Elizabeth
Smart, that young girl who'd been kidnapped out in Utah, had been out
in the open with her kidnapper and never tried to signal for help.
Maybe something similar was playing here.
Edna wasn't buying it.
The redheaded possible-Katie whispered something to the darkhaired man. They picked up their pace. Edna saw them veer right and
down the subway stairs. The sign read c and e trains. Stanley caught
up to Edna. He was about to say something, but he saw the look on her
face and kept still.
"Come on," she said.
They hurried around the front and started down the stairs. The missing woman and the dark-haired man were already through the turnstile. Edna started toward it.
"Damn it."
"What?"
"I don't have a MetroCard."
"I do," Stanley said.
"Let me have it. Hurry."
Stanley plucked the card from his wallet and handed it to her. She
scanned it, moved through the turnstile, handed it back to him. She
didn't wait. They'd gone down the stairs to the right. She started that
way. She heard the roar of an incoming train and hurried her steps.
The brakes were squeaking to a halt. The subway doors slid open.
Edna's heart beat wildly in her chest. She looked left and right, searching for the red hair.
Nothing.
Where was that girl?
"Edna?" It was Stanley. He had caught up to her.
Edna said nothing. She stood on the platform, but there was no
sign of Katie Rochester. And even if there was, what then? What should
Edna do here? Does she hop on the train and follow them? To where?
And then what? Find the apartment or house and then call the police. . . .
Someone tapped her shoulder.
Edna turned. It was the missing girl.
For a long time after this, Edna would wonder what she saw in the
girl's expression. Was there a pleading look? A desperation? A calmness? Joy, even? Resolution? All of them.
They just stood and stared at each other for a moment. The bustling
crowd, the indecipherable static on the speaker, the swoosh of the
train - it all disappeared, leaving just the two of them.
"Please," the missing girl said, her voice a whisper. "You can't tell
anybody you saw me."
The girl stepped onto the train then. Edna felt a chill. The doors
slid closed. Edna wanted to do something, do anything, but she couldn't
move. Her gaze remained locked on the girl's.
"Please," the girl mouthed through the glass.
And then the train disappeared into the dark.

CHAPTER 2
here were two teenage girls in Myron's basement.
That was how it began. Later, when Myron looked back on all
the loss and heartbreak, this first series of what-ifs would rise up
and haunt him anew. What if he hadn't needed ice. What if he'd
opened his basement door a minute earlier or a minute later. What
if the two teenage girls - what were they doing alone in his basement in the first place? - had spoken in whispers so that he hadn't
overheard them.
What if he had just minded his own business.
From the top of the stairs, Myron heard the girls giggling. He
stopped. For a moment he considered closing the door and leaving
them alone. His small soiree was low on ice, not out of it. He could
come back.
But before he could turn away, one of the girls' voices wafted
smoke-like up the stairwell. "So you went with Randy?"
The other: "Oh my God, we were like so wasted."
"From beer?"
"Beer and shots, yeah."
"How did you get home?"
"Randy drove."
At the top of the stairs, Myron stiffened.
"But you said - "
"Shh." Then: "Hello? Is someone there?"
Caught.
Myron took the stairs in a trot, whistling as he went. Mr. Casual.
The two girls were sitting in what used to be Myron's bedroom. The
basement had been "finished" in 1975 and looked it. Myron's father,
who was currently lollygagging with Mom in some condo near Boca
Raton, had been big on two-sided tape. The adhesive wood paneling, a
look that aged about as well as the Betamax, had started to give. In
some spots the concrete walls were now visible and noticeably flaking.
The floor tiles, fastened down with something akin to Elmer's Glue,
were buckling. They crunched beetle-like when you stepped on them.
The two girls - one Myron had known her whole life, the other he
had just met today - looked up at him with wide eyes. For a moment
no one spoke. He gave them a little wave.
"Hey, girls."
Myron Bolitar prided himself on big opening lines.
The girls were both high school seniors, both pretty in that coltish
way. The one sitting on the corner of his old bed - the one he had met
for the first time an hour ago - was named Erin. Myron had started dating Erin's mother, a widow and freelance magazine writer named Ali
Wilder, two months ago. This party, here at the house Myron had
grown up in and now owned, was something of a "coming out" party
for Myron and Ali as a couple.
The other girl, Aimee Biel, mimicked his wave and tone. "Hey,
Myron."
More silence.
He first saw Aimee Biel the day after she was born at St. Barnabas
Hospital. Aimee and her parents, Claire and Erik, lived two blocks
away. Myron had known Claire since their years together at Heritage
Middle School, less than half a mile from where they now gathered.
Myron turned toward Aimee. For a moment he fell back more than
twenty-five years. Aimee looked so much like her mother, had the
same crooked, devil-may-care grin, it was like looking through a time
portal.
"I was just getting some ice," Myron said. He pointed toward the
freezer with his thumb to illustrate the point.
"Cool," Aimee said.
"Very cool," Myron said. "Ice cold, in fact."
Myron chuckled. Alone.
With the stupid grin still on his face, Myron looked over at Erin. She
turned away. That had been her basic reaction today. Polite and aloof.
"Can I ask you something?" Aimee said.
"Shoot."
She spread her hands. "Was this really your room growing up?"
"Indeed it was."
The two girls exchanged a glance. Aimee giggled. Erin did likewise.
"What?" Myron said.
"This room . . . I mean, could it possibly be lamer?"

</file>

