<file= AmE06_G01>

I went to London not to see the queen, but to find the Dutch baronet from whom we were all descended. I went as my father and forefathers and foremothers had done, to turn the crackling pages of a parish register and put my finger on our name. I went with an image of Gualter de Raedt, a young Dutchman in 1660, boarding a ship to accompany Charles the Second back to England, where monarchy would be restored. The fleet of thirteen ships sailed from Schevinengen on a flat gray sea as fifty thousand people stood on the beach to watch. Our man, our first identifiable forefather, our target of international inquiry, entered London with Charles on a Tuesday in May, the streets lined with observers, the horses plumed with French feathers, and was created (and here our family springs into being) Baronet the very next day. Charles owed rather a lot of favors, having raised an army which he could not pay, an ill-disciplined hungry army of 2,500 men, and so when he triumphally entered London, with a detailed contract for his employment as king, called elegantly the Declaration of Breda, and having ordered such household necessities as a velvet bed, he felt the urgency of dispensing honors, in some cases instead of money, and so our man became Sir Gualter de Raedt, of the Hague. Sir Walter, the family bible-keepers called him, anglicizing his name, Sir Walter Rhett. We come down from Sir Walter Rhett, who was Dutch, wrote a family historian, who was (and this part is underlined) of the oldest and purest nobility that Europe can boast. Thus my introduction to the fantasies of genealogists. I sort of felt Dutch after learning of the Dutch baronet from whom we were all descended, sort of proud of being part-Netherlander rather than the more ordinary Irish or Scottish. And hadn't I been to Holland? Yes, the summer I was ten, we had stayed with friends in the Hague. It was the summer of the Munich Olympics; on television black-masked terrorists alternated with swimming races. My parents decided to divorce; I read Lord of the Flies; Mrs. Weingard made strawberry pancakes; the Dutch placed their dining rooms at the fronts of houses, facing the street, so passersby could see families eating together in the evenings; we rode the streetcar; wasn't Holland a nice country. The Dutch must love children; they tried to save Anne Frank; there were playgrounds built by philanthropists everywhere, their names on brass plaques. Why did that man build a whole park, Dad? I don't know, he must have loved children. We stood on the beach at Schevinengen, my mother gone by then, gone home early; we ate French fries from a paper cone and examined a dead man-o-war, a blue poisonous gel on the sand. We stood on the sand where the fifty thousand stood watching the fleet depart for England. I looked for our man in England because I didn't know how we knew we'd come down from the Dutch baronet. Someone had written it down, the same someone who had noted that although scrofula, a tuberculosis of the lymph glands, had infiltrated the Barnwell family, with whom the Rhetts had intermarried, "Our Barnwell blood is prior to this admixture and is free from these taints." Thank goodness, we were scrofula-free, and came down from the antique nobles, so the family eugenicists might relax. Scrofula could cause hereditary insanity. I looked for our man Gualter de Raedt in all of the purest British libraries, where interviews are required to obtain reader's cards and uniformed guards man every door and the cafeteria serves gooseberry crumble with custard sauce. English custard is a personal weakness; we lived in London for my kindergarten year. The children laughed every time I spoke and I clutched a teddy bear and learned to spell Mississippi with a desperate nationalist pride; custard soothed me every day at lunch. I was so grateful we had a big river to make America important. I glided into the libraries and record offices, buoyant with academic credentials as I passed through electronic portals and metal turnstiles. Gualter de Raedt could be found in Burke's Extinct Baronetry, wrote the old bible-keeper, and there he was, comfortably nestled into type with all of the other baronets. Our baronet, our noble Hollander, who fathered a son who would emigrate to the colony of Carolina. But the entry didn't say all that, the entry said only that "of him no information can be obtained." Had anyone searched for him? Had anyone tried to find out about this first father, whom he married, where he lived? I thought not. Hadn't the family genealogists instead branched off happily into records of the Moores and Yeamans, the Coffins and the Smiths, burbling into notebooks about beheaded patriots and sheriffs of Exeter and elaborate Barbadian plantations? Because a family comes down vertically, from past to present, but it also moves across, and sometimes the in-laws prove most illustrious. Genealogists at computers enter the names and dates of their own Borgesian Garden of the Forking Paths, creating intricate infinite branchings, branchings that delicately and relentlessly in the manner of Chinese landscape paintings intertwine with other trees with which we are connected, and we carry each other's imprints for shyness and crowded teeth, and there were few divorces (though many early deaths) in the old days unlike the 1970's; how comforting history can be. 
A certain Leo of Canada, who responded to my Internet posting on the Benelux family history bulletin board - one of the uncountable nonspatial places where we searchers cross paths - Leo of Canada possessed the de Raedt family history back to the fifteenth century, two hundred years beyond what the rest of us Rhetts knew, and he might be persuaded to give me that history if I could prove that his Gualter de Raedt and my Gualter de Raedt were the same man. How could they not be, I typed to him. How many Gualter de Raedts of the Hague were made baronet on May 30,1660? More than one? I felt snappish, I wanted those two hundred years, I wanted all the years, and when would I or any other genealogist be satisfied? Our unnamed family historian had described us as "an old family." Isn't every family old? We all come from someone. Was the idea, ultimately, to trace ourselves back to the beginning, to an Adam and Eve, to the mind of a god? At the moment, for me, god was King Charles the Second, divinely appointed monarch who could cure Evil (and scrofula) by laying both his hands on a person, King Charles the Second who created de Raedt by causing his name to be entered in the record books. I would find every instance in which public intersected with private, in which history, for a moment, picked him up. History had picked us up before, even in my lifetime. My uncle talked with his mistress on the telephone, unfortunately from the offices of the Democratic Party in the Watergate Hotel. When the tapes were played, my aunt left him. Most of our shining moments, though, when the white light of the public slid into houses, had occurred in an earlier era, and so now, in 1999, I felt rather like an inhabitant of a village known mainly for its fifteenth-century fort. In the libraries I checked online catalogues and microfilmed lists of the inhabitants of London and clothbound poll books, almanacs, electoral rolls. I checked the directories of surnames and the calendars of state papers, testamentary records and commissary courts, monumental inscriptions and the St. Catherine's Hospital Index of Archives. Could such research ever be completed? There were boxes of crumbling parchment pages that no one had ever deciphered; one had to read unalphabetized lists of names in a clerk's faded and crabbed cursive, spending foolish and inefficient hours. (All the poor dead clerks, despised for illegibility.) I knew why the others, on their week- or month-long vacations to England, had abandoned the search for de Raedt, our Dutch baronet. Elusive as a pearl he was, posing somewhere unfindable in high boots and a long sword and a serious Dutch expression. In the manuscripts reading room of the British Library, ever so carefully using foam book supports and slips of paper for turning pages, I read an item from the Scattergood Collections, an ivory-bound book of the armorials of baronets created from 1611-1688. How I wished that one of the hand-painted coats of arms belonged to me, that I might decode its symbols, a gold stag or wild boar, black pigeons or green stars. How I wished that my man had been Browne of Kiddington, Langham of Cotsbrooke, or Keate of the Hoo. There were Hyldeyard of Patrington, Shuckburgh of Shuckburgh, Hudson of Melton-Mowbray, Austen of Bexley, Hales of Bekesburne, and Dudley of Clopton, and my man was not among them, and I felt a great sadness and exclusion. Gualter de Raedt may have been a baronet, but he was not a proper one, with property and a coat of arms and a resume under his name and a list of sons who had carried on. His baronetry had, in fact, of course, become extinct. Why couldn't we have come down from Wheeler of Westminster or Gresham of Limpsfield? A Dr. Seuss owl seemed to call plaintively from the creamy pages, Keate of the Hoo, Keate of the Hoo. "You've got a real loser here," the Guildhall librarian said sourly. "You won't find him." What extremely protuberant ears the man had, picture him eating custard at the kindergarten table, snatching the American girl's pencil, a nasty little boy. Snobby, clubby Brits, didn't the ancestors have a lot of pluck to get out of here, sailing for the colonies in wooden ships the size of trailer homes. In the Guildhall manuscripts room, the man said smoothly, "So many of these genealogical references are fictitious. Genealogists have a rather low standard of accuracy." Rather low, oh didn't I know it! Hadn't I almost vomited trying to read, on microfilm, 43 unindexed handscrawled volumes of a Mrs. Smith's family history because there was, according to the Great Card Index at the Society of Genealogists, a lone reference to an Alice de Raan, daughter of Walter? Who had dared to scribble that note on a card catalogue card without a page reference? How could card catalogue cards be handwritten instead of typed? Were we children playing at school? And why didn't genealogists use citations, they acted as if the words came down on the stone tablets, the way they copied laboriously from each other's family bibles without asking questions. If a certain family historian had explained how she knew we were related to Gualter de Raedt, I wouldn't be trundling around London being patronized by male librarians, becoming lost in the Barbican's space-colony concrete walkways, eating potato chips to quell the nausea, concluding as I sat at a polished wooden table that genealogists were messy-minded and low and that I had become one. There sat the scholars around me, meticulously totting up the taxation criteria of 1750 or smiling contentedly over the original manuscript of To the Lighthouse. I shot them jealous glances. There was not the slightest evidence that the Dutch baronet had remained in London and fathered a child; the slightest evidence, a will proved in the Archbishop of Canterbury's court a hundred years later, pointed back toward Holland. It looked as if de Raedt had sailed home, and it looked as if William Rhett, our first father in the North American colonies, had sprung out of the city of London from unknown parents and simply scrapped his way toward being the chief customs officer of Charleston and owner of the mellifluously named property of Rhettsburg. I admired that he had no advantage of noble parentage, and suddenly understood his awful behaviour - he was not averse to mooning the governor, or seizing the royal shipment of tobacco for his wife to sell in the streets by the barrel - as a reaction against the clearly delineated hierarchies of England.

</file>

<file= AmE06_G02>

Ellie, you brought Michael Harwood's nobility and warmth to life in your book, as well as the tragedy of his sudden death, which must have sentenced Mary to years of hard life without him, before her own equally cruel death in slow motion. Your description of him made me remember what I had completely forgotten: Michael appearing at my ill-fated play, saying something to me I very much wanted to hear. I was in emotional free fall at the time. When he told me how much he liked the play, it was important for me to hear that from someone I could believe. I could believe Michael Harwood, since it was an extraordinary thing for a man to do for a former lover of his wife.
Writing the letter, what astounded me was how completely I had repressed what else was done for me then. None of it was trauma, all of it was pleasant, seeming only mildly eventful. There was nothing to be traumatized about. Mary Durant and I were both single, open about being together, deceiving no one. We were both living third lives. She had been a faculty wife and mother, then a member of a dazzling Hollywood celebrity set, then a beginning novelist. I had been an actor, then a divorced father, then a beginning novelist. That was our reality then. We knew it and lived it for what it was. But I had to ask myself, how much reality can be entombed in a former happiness, while we are so grimly determined to present to the world the profundities of life and death, as we so profoundly understand them. How pale such ambition can suddenly seem, compared with a forgotten reality, brought to life by a self-piercing restoration of memory.
She took me to a party at Rose Styron's, and to others, from your house in Connecticut and from my place in New York. I met wonderful people. She several times openly preferred me, to my childish male satisfaction, over some other, more aggressive, more successful older men, who were scornful of me, a young cipher. She had a sharp and sometimes impatient wit, which she never turned on me except once, when we decided we should part. She didn't like it that I was chewing gum at the moment. Who could blame her for that? Another flash of her spirit came earlier, in my defense. It happened in my one-room, sixty-four-dollar-a-month 72nd St. New York apartment, second floor back. A high school classmate of mine, the daughter of a once prominent senator, wanted to visit me in New York. She had married a wealthy Southern businessman. She asked to see me in New York when she was there on a visit. She would bring her husband and a friend. I said all right, but thought it a good idea to have Mary there when they came. My high school friend was appalled to see me, a former social companion, her acknowl- edged peer in a posh Washington, D.C., youth, now a poverty- stricken, one-book writer, in shabby bohemian digs. She took pains to describe the mansion she lived in, in South Carolina, and how much money her husband and their friend made every year. The husband was faintly amused and discreetly repelled, while the gentleman friend became first sarcastic and then obnoxious. He evidently fancied himself a Casanova. He had a black eye patch, which he wore it seemed more in vanity, as a costume befitting a man of wide experience, than a cover for a missing eye, which was the case. He had lost the sight of that eagle eye, he told Mary, as he sat down next to her on my Salvation Army sofa, ignoring me, in a racing car accident in France. He then put his hand on Mary's knee. Before I could move, Mary brushed it off, saying, ''You do that again and I'll put out your other eye.'' They left my digs. Mary left me admiring her more than ever.
Again and again. I once ended up in Lenox Hill Hospital with a kidney stone. I was in that awful kind of pain, as bad for a man, they say, as childbirth is for a woman. Just after they gave me morphine, and I was floating on a river of relief, there Mary appeared, absolutely like an angel from heaven. She didn't say a word. She just handed me a Virginia Kirkus review of my second novel, a thank God good one. That book was published about the same time Mary's second novel came out, bonding us both together as, after all, functioning authors. More, there was more. Mary dropped me off at Yaddo later in the summer of 1965. I'd done all right with the two novels but wrote miserably afterward. I was at rock bottom. I was a fake, just plain awful. I suppose I was lamenting my writerly frustrations rather too loudly. In no uncertain terms Mary Durant told me to for God's sake write whatever impossible thing I was going to write about Frederick the Great. I could do it. Just stop reading books about him. I cast aside my fears at my own presumption, writing about such a monumental historical figure. With Mary's injunction ringing in my ears, I went to work the next morning, beginning my life as a playwright. Would I have done that without her? I honestly don't think so. It seemed like such folly. Who was I to attempt such a thing? Even if I could actually do it (in a play?), who in this country could possibly care about him or ever stage such a play? I had left the theater for the novel. I wanted nothing more to do with the squabbles of show business, which I had known all too well as an actor. I was not going there. I would live in the world of prose, where I could write with reason and sanity. Of course, I did the opposite, with some success in this country. When it was later produced in Austria, at the Vienna Burgtheater, I was giddy with surprise and pleasure. I did not remember Mary. I was asked why in the world would an American, from Appalachia, write such a play. Only now have I realized what I should have said: because Mary Durant told me to. I had another answer, all about, you know, the darker realities of my life, and so on, instead of Mary's short and sensible instruction. I had forgotten the woman who told me I was afraid to try what I most wanted to do.
After I wrote this letter to Ellie, I said to myself, wait a minute, what else? Well, my God. Right now? I was at that moment rehearsing a play I had written years ago. The actors were having a good time with it, since it is a durable piece, often performed. One half of it is autobiographical. I had come to believe that the other half was my invention. No, no, no. That other part of that play came from a piece of dialogue given to me by Mary Durant. Two women, she had heard, were lovers in a small town for many years. One had to go away. The other said to her, ''I will live on the floor at your feet. Don't leave me.'' The complete play came from that. I gulped and went to rehearsal, to work with actors on Mary's gift to me forty years ago. From the letter:
In our New York of 1964 and 1965, there was a Chinese restaurant on 72nd Street, just off Broadway. It was shopworn and none too clean, but it had old mahogany wood walls left over from some kind of ancient town house or other. There were beautiful ugly booths with just the right kind of hideous formica tops. It served watered Stock vermouth and weak Gordon's vodka martinis, which Mary and I cherished, because we could look forward to two or three or sometimes four. We collapsed into those booths with the happy sighs of an audience hearing Artur Rubenstein begin a Chopin nocturne. Happiness can come in many forms. For us, almost the equal of Chopin, was a just off Broadway, worn down 72nd Street Chinese restaurant.
In Ellie's book, which I recommend to anyone wanting to better understand this illness, Mary's ordeal is described, clearly and bluntly. She lives now in the dim world of her California nursing home. It was a five-year ordeal for her daughter before she could find the right home. The details as written are not pleasant, but they are firm and they are honest. They render the universality of a sorrow for a lost parent. The book opens with an epigraph by Nelson Algren: ''All was well, for what was dust had when living been loved.''
Mary Durant is in her eighties now, as well off, I understand, as she can be, both lost and loved by her daughter and her son, and now, at long distance, by me.
As two beginning writers, she and I spent our artistic youth together. There was no one else. Yes, of course, I had other friends who were encouraging and helpful, but I was not really close to anyone who knew firsthand what was going on inside me. She did. Along with her wit and grace, and in our mutual affection, we shared this unexpected fresh new existence. I devoured her writing and she mine. Together, for a year and a half, we shared our common excitement in the world we discovered, which we found all by ourselves but where each was as alone as the other.
As everyone knows, one terrible reality of Alzheimer's disease means that communication with loved ones can be crushed to extinction. I knew that though the nursing home was some distance away from her home, Ellie visited her mother often. I was told that for a moment or two, Mary could still communicate, before her a∆icted mind would shut her down. And I remembered something else. The letter: ''There was an old Southern hymn we had both enjoyed in our childhood churches, about all that was left of religion for two agnostic writers. It was Fairest Lord Jesus. We would sing it together often, over martinis, in bed, driving somewhere. I used it in the most performed of my plays. I never see that play or hear that hymn without seeing her again.''
Later, I thought I would record the hymn on tape, singing it as we sang it together, and send the tape to Ellie. I did not expect anything much to happen, but I could hope that perhaps music, especially that song Mary sang with me so often, might get a response. I read somewhere that musicians with Alzheimer's disease remember and can often still play music they had known. In a week or so, I got a phone call from Ellie, saying that indeed, she did play the tape for her mother, whose eyes widened with some recognition. Her attention stayed with it until its end, and for a second afterward, so Ellie said, with me.
Never mind please that when we were together, I was thirty-five and Mary forty-two. Freud didn't know everything. Nabokov would understand. All mother-son suspicions, even if true to some extent, were beside the point, as was everything else when we were talking about our books and our life. Lord Byron knew what love is. ''Friendship with wings,'' he called it, and so it was for us. It flew us together over everything, over doubt, over the future, over the jealousies of snobs and insights of the wise, over the regrets of shared emotional squalors, consequences of our past mistakes. They were left behind us. We were riding an old Volkswagen through perfectly ordinary landscapes, in an unlikely morning. We were full of joy and mischief, standing up to the world, publishing our books, rediscovering our lives, as if nothing like them had ever been lived, and we would live forever.

</file>

<file= AmE06_G03>

The latter stayed within their own groups:cheetah families, a pride of--imagine!--17 lions, and a lone leopard in a tree. A small group of hyenas emerged from the bush, muzzles and necks freshly stained red and abdomens bulging from their recent breakfast. 

This morning, instead of tracking game in the lowlands, we drove to the higher ridge where a Masai village sat. The chief greeted us, collected $20 apiece and, in surprisingly good English (learned solely from tourist interaction), delivered a brief history of his tribe followed by a tour of the village. The Masai, displaced from living in the park, grazed cows and goats on the outskirts. The tribe was totally self-sufficient, living on the meat and milk of its herds. Periodically they bled the cows, draining off a pint of blood with a hollow stick that punctured ajugular vein, and drank it mixed with milk. They grew no crops and ate very few green foods. Each morning young boys and men dressed in florid red cloths easily spotted in the drab grass herded the flocks to the lower pastures to graze. 
The chief led us through an opening in the bramble fence enclosure, and we gingerly tiptoed around and over cow dung that filled the space. Every evening the animals supporting the Masai existence and accounting for their wealth were herded into this ring for protection. Calves and baby goats were sheltered in the front rooms of tiny domed three-room huts in which the Masai family lived. The other two rooms were the father's sleeping cubicle and a smaller one for the mother, who slept with the children. Mud, grass and cow dung formed the walls and roof, with a hard-packed dirt floor. Body heat from the young animals and a central fire whose smoke billowed through a hole in the roof kept families warm. No hot-water bottle or hot tea delivered by an attendant here! 

Clouds of flies settled on faces, eyes, and clothes. Electricity and running water did not exist. Streams or shallow wells provided drinking water. At this hour, the only males left in the camp were the chief and two old men, one of whom showed us how they made fire by rubbing two sticks together, exactly as I had done 50 years earlier to earn my Boy Scout's merit badge! 

Women--alone or carrying babies--stood watching us. Then they grouped together and chanted a Masai welcome. Several women were building a new hut, a chore deemed unworthy of a Masai man. Children of all ages ran about in various stages of dress ... or undress. Two older boys engaged in a shoving match until they were separated by one of the mothers--sibling rivalry universal, no different here than at home. 

Kicking and scraping the thick crust of dung from our shoes, we toured the village, bought a few hand-beaded trinkets, and reboarded the Land Rover to return to our camp for a thorough hand-washing and shoe-cleaning before lunch. We ate and, after a swim and a nap, left for the afternoon drive in the cool of early sunset. Animal life, slowed during the heat of the day, emerged from dense foliage, thickets and trees, foraging for food. A large herd of elephants blocking the road were in no hurry to let us drive through. The herd was intent on tearing up great hunks of grass by the roots, shaking the dirt off so as not to wear down their teeth, and swallowing basketball-sized clumps. The biggest elephant, the grand dame matriarch, eyed us warily and trunk-guided her year-old baby son beneath her belly. He suckled for a few minutes and emerged from her protection to confront our vehicle. Barely three feet tall, the little guy mock-charged the Land Rover, ears flaring and trunk raised, hissing at us. He then ran back to Mother, seemingly quite proud of his show of bravado, so much so that he repeated it, making certain the entire herd of ten witnessed his bravery. Then, once again, he scurried beneath his mother's huge flanks while she stood impassively, or perhaps with a slight smile on her face. Do elephants smile, I wondered? 

The wildebeests were migrating south in search of fresh tender grass and water from the Masai Mara in Kenya to its continuation, a plain called the Serengeti, once it crossed the Tanzania border. Great herds of wildebeests stood grazing, while others formed an endless serpentine line resembling a dark smudge stretching across the horizon. As we approached, the smudge became defined, first as dots and then as individual animals walking in single file, tail to head, almost in each other's footsteps. A narrow path worn into the plain testified to their orderly methodical march. The strongest led while the elders struggled to keep up the rear. Half-grown calfs, all born within a day of each other, hugged close to their mothers' sides. Because of relatively poor eyesight, wildebeests often commingled with zebras to take advantage of the zebras' visual acuity. Predators were all about, waiting for an opportunity to strike. 

Suddenly the line halted and the animals milled around nervously. Were lions close by? No, our guide said, it was the Mara River. As the vehicle drew closer, we could see the lead animals dancing agitatedly on the shore, edging closer to the water, then back, trying to galvanize sufficient courage to cross the wet chasm blocking their journey. 

And, indeed, courage was needed, because in the river lay a dozen half-submerged floating logs with only eyes and snouts showing. These huge river crocodiles sensed dinner was approaching, and they only needed to wait for home delivery on the hoof. A two-ton hippopotamus walked the river bottom nearby, observing an uneasy truce with the crocs. Mean-spirited and unpredictable, these huge herbivores that protected their tender skin by wallowing in water during the day accounted for more human deaths in Africa than any other animal. 

Finally the lead animal, a big male zebra, took the plunge. The crocs struck in an instant. One locked jaws on a rear leg while another bit down on its muzzle, dragging the zebra underwater. The river churned as the animal fought to get free. But it could not escape the powerful jaws dragging it into deeper water, where it soon drowned. Other crocs converged and began ripping off chunks of flesh by grabbing hold, twisting and rolling over and over in the ever-reddening water. An eagle flew to the river bank, waiting for a chance to dive into the frenzy for a piece of meat. When it appeared that most of the crocs were focused on the zebra carcass, the migration restarted, the line once again moving after the brief, but deadly, interlude. Sacrificing one zebra was the price for crossing the river ... this time. 

The rest of the afternoon yielded little game, and our group grew weary of bouncing over rutted roads in search of an elusive large herd of elephants. It was remarkable how these huge beasts quietly blended into the bush. Finally our guide pulled to a stop and turned off the motor to "listen to the bush talking." Faintly, we heard low-pitched rumbling sounds and sharp clicking noises in the distance. Staring hard into the dense foliage, we saw nothing but shadows. 

"Elephants," the guide whispered, "talking to each other." 

"And the clicking sounds?" I asked. 

"Young males sparring, tusk on tusk." The guide started the engine and backed the Land Rover 50 yards further down the road. "They will cross in front of us," he said under his breath. "Just wait." 

We sat five minutes, ten, slapping at mosquitoes and flicking flies in the gathering gloom, listening to the bush. Birds sang, katydids chirped, and the rumbling noises intensified. Suddenly, we saw a huge shadow take solid form. Not ten yards in front of our vehicle the matriarch elephant began to cross the road, a 3 1/2-ton giant not yet seeing us. She looked right and then left, almost like any pedestrian crossing a street, and then spied our vehicle. With an ear-piercing shriek, upraised trunk, and flapping ears, the mammoth bundle of fury charged! No three-foot baby this time! My hands instinctively flew to protect my face as I was certain she would overturn the Land Rover and trample us all. But just inches from the vehicle, she halted, backed away, and repeated her ferocious attack, head high. Again the behemoth stopped inches from us. Three times she repeated her angry assault, each attack sending our hearts racing, but each stopping just short of us. 

Apparently satisfied that we represented no threat (and that she had scared us into submission), she slowly crossed the road, followed by the other members of her herd. We sat spellbound for the next ten minutes as 35 gray beasts of all sizes walked in front of us, behind us, and alongside, padded feet slapping quietly on the road. We were surrounded by tons of elephants. But since the matriarch dismissed us as a threat, not one charged, yet all appraised us carefully. When the lengthy procession finished, fading again into the shrubs, we turned to each other--some still white-faced, hearts thudding. Our guide was smiling. 

"Oh, they never actually complete the attack," he said, only after the last of the phalanx had passed. "In my 24 years in the bush, I have never seen it happen. Just a mock display to see if you'd run. When they really intend to charge, their ears flatten and there is no warning, just a speeding missile coming at you." 

"Why didn't you tell us that before?" I asked. 

"And spoil the fun?" he replied. 

Sunlight was fading rapidly in the drive back to camp. Giraffes swayed gracefully in the golden light, stretched necks bobbing from side to side and casting elongated shadows while grazing on the treetops. They walked with a unique sort of sashaying gait, moving both legs on one side in unison with each step. Only the hyena walked similarly. I thought about the giraffes' blood pressure, 2 1/2 times that of a human, required to transport blood up those long necks, and the 25-pound heart needed to generate it. One at a time they stopped to drink, carefully spreading front legs wide to reach the water while others stood guard. One slip and the lanky giants might not be able to get up again. 

A male ostrich dashed in front of the Land Rover, shook its wings and danced across the road, trying to capture a female's attention. In the bush, a serval, looking much like a displaced house cat, chased a rabbit bigger than itself. 

At the next turn, animals on both sides of the road froze and stared. Ahead, walking directly in our path with the same insouciant attitude, was the lion pair, owning the road. Our vehicle braked to a stop, and we sat holding our breaths while the brothers passed so close we could have reached out and petted them. We sat mesmerized, but these kings ignored us like so much flora. The lords of the land meandered into the bush when suddenly a 1,500-pound water buffalo came over the rise, almost colliding heads with them. For just a split second, the threesome stood still, taking stock of each other. Then, head lowered and fearsome horns thrust forward, the buffalo charged the pair. Not about to wrestle with a powerful male buffalo in its prime, the royals fled like vanquished rulers, tails between legs. 

After dinner we sat in deck chairs at the front of our tent, recalling the day's adventures. The night sky was lit up--exploding fireworks by the millions o-f stars. Venus outshone all other planets, appearing close enough to pluck like low-hanging fruit. Across the sky sped a satellite. And in the distance, on the other side of the electric fence, Africa continued its cycle of life and death as it had for countless millennia. We could only hope the cheetahs had found dinner.

</file>

<file= AmE06_G04>

I wonder, for instance, as I read the various pro- and anti-gun polemics, who the actual enemy is supposed to be: the marauding outlaws who might be deterred by an "armed citizen," or the execrable Clintons, who, according to an editorial in the American Rifleman, attacked the Second Amendment every day. Are we supposed to be more incensed by the shady dealer who sells guns to Murder Incorporated or by the straight-arrow collector who thinks Charlton Heston could act? Issue-driven politics in red-and-blue America are like a man whose appetite for a steak is greatly enhanced by his contempt for vegetarians.
The gun issue is further complicated by a good deal of silliness, and in this it differs noticeably from the politics of the womb. Guns are either objects of superstition (they will just about make you commit suicide, according to some accounts) or pieces of pornographic paraphernalia, the things that get whipped out at the climax of a thousand socially smutty plots, on TV, in our heads, and then, insanely, in an actual event in which real people die. We all know what the Terminator said and the Taxi Driver said, but who recalls, much less ponders, what Thoreau said in his Plea for Captain John Brown (1853): "I speak for the slave when I say that I prefer the philanthropy of Captain John Brown to that philanthropy which neither shoots me nor liberates me.  ...  I do not wish to kill nor to be killed, but I can foresee circumstances in which both these things would be by me unavoidable."
Unfortunately, a progressive, as someone with my politics has come to be called, does not like to ponder such mortal circumstances. Notice the telling grammatical shift by which the adjective "progressive" becomes a titular noun--comparable to a godly person who begins to speak of himself as a god. As the living embodiment of progress itself, a progressive is beyond rage, beyond "the politics of yesterday," and certainly beyond anything as retro as a gun. More than I fear fundamentalists who wish to teach religious myths in place of evolution I fear progressives who wish to teach evolution in place of political science. Or, rather, who forget a central principle of evolutionary thought: that no species completely outgrows its origins.
Like democracy, for example. What is that creature, if not the offspring of literacy and ballistics? Once a peasant can shoot down a knight, the writing is on the wall, including the writing that says, "We hold these truths to be self-evident." Self-evident because Sir Galahad doesn't appear to be moving. Guns, Germs, and Steel is a good title for a book about European imperialism; Guns, Fonts, and Ballots would serve for a book about the rise of the European democratic state.
There are those who will insist, and many do, that what might have been true in the days of James Madison and Henry David Thoreau--and even in the days of Robert Williams--is no longer true in the days of neo-Nazis and Guantánamo Bay. But that questionable premise gives rise to an even more interesting question: If the Second Amendment is a dispensable anachronism in the era of school shootings, might not the First, Fourth, and Fifth amendments be dispensable anachronisms during a "war on terror"? Small wonder if some of those who readily make the first concession were equally ready to queue up behind the Republican right in ratifying the second.
Historians of weaponry tell us that one effect of the gun was to change the ideal of courage on the battlefield from a willingness to engage in hand-to-hand combat to an ability to stand firm under fire. At this point in our history, I'll take any form of courage I can get, but had Congress the smallest measure of the gunner's kind, the Patriot Act might still be a doodle on Dick Cheney's cocktail napkin.
I grew up with guns and I live in a region where many people have them. They have guns because they hunt for meat, and they have guns for the same reason that many of them also have ponds dug close to their barns and houses. In a community with no fire hydrants, you want water for the fire engine. And in an area where a handful of state police and part-time sheriffs patrol a vast web of back roads spread across three counties, you might want the means to defend yourself. I own a fire extinguisher, a first-aid kit, and a shotgun. Not to own any of these would strike me as an affectation.
I hope that I shall never have to confront anyone with my gun, but owning a gun has forced me to confront myself. Anyone who owns firearms for reasons other than hunting and sport shooting (neither of which I do) has admitted that he or she is willing to kill another human being--as opposed to the more civilized course of allowing human beings to be killed by paid functionaries on his or her behalf. Owning a gun does not enhance my sense of power; it enhances my sense of compromise and contingency--a feeling curiously like that of holding down a job.In other words, it is one more glaring proof that I am not Mahatma Gandhi or even Che Guevara, just another soft-bellied schlimazel trying to keep the lawn mowed and the psychopaths off the lawn.
If the authorities attempted to confiscate my gun in a house-to-house search, I believe I would offer resistance.What I would not offer is a justifying argument; the argument is implicit in the ramifications of a house-to-house search. But all of this is so much fantasy, another example of the disingenuousness that tends to color our discussion of guns. The Day When All the Guns Are Gathered Up--what the paranoids regard as the end of the world and the Pollyannas as the Rapture--it's never going to happen. There are nearly 1.4 million active troops in the U.S. armed forces; there are an estimated 200 million guns in private hands. The war over the proper interpretation of the Second Amendment is effectively over. The most reasonable and decent thing that gun groups could do at this point is to declare victory, and negotiate terms with the generosity that is so becoming in a victor.Five-day waiting periods? Agreed, but our sense of honor compels us to insist on ten. (Oh, to have been born in a time of so many guns and so little gallantry! Perhaps we ought not to have shot Sir Galahad after all.) No assault rifles owned by civilians--also agreed, so long as no assault rifles are used on civilians.
Of course, none of this is going to happen either. It would require a confidence that scarcely exists. One need only peruse the ads and articles in gun magazines to see the evidence of its rarity--to see that poignant, ironic, and insatiable obsession with overwhelming force. That cry of impotence. The American Rifleman I recall from my boyhood was closer to Field & Stream than to Soldier of Fortune, more like Popular Mechanics than National Review. My father and my uncles were do-it-yourself guys; their guns were just something else to lube. When I was a kid, I thought a liberal was a person who couldn't fix a car. But the cars aren't so easy to take apart anymore; the "check engine" light comes on and only the dealership has all the codes. As in Detroit, so in Washington: the engineering works the same. I am not the first to point out the sleight of hand that bedevils us: the illusion of power and choice perpetuated to disguise a diminishing sphere of action. A person dry-fires his Ruger in the same reverie of preparedness as another aims her cursor at her favorite blog. What precision, what access, what an army of options! Something's going to happen one of these days, and when it does, man, I'm going to be ready. In the meantime, just listen to that awesome sterile click.
Recreational purposes aside, the problem with guns is that their only conscionable private use is defensive. Even Robert Williams was insistent on this point. Hannah Arendt says as much when, in her book On Violence, she writes that "Rage and violence turn irrational only when they are directed against substitutes." Who are you likely to shoot in a modern uprising if not a substitute?
The other trouble with guns is their reductive effect on the question of violent versus nonviolent resistance. They predispose us to think of violence exclusively as gun violence. Arendt herself seems close to this assumption when she defines violence as the forceful use of "implements." Her definition makes sense to me only if the human body also counts as an implement.
In that regard it may be instructive to look at the political history of violent confrontations in America. None has been pretty; perhaps a few led to reform. But of the latter, not all or even many have involved guns. Shootouts always follow a predictable script. They are like bullfights: the matador may get gored but the bull always dies. Red flags wave and perhaps a white flag after that, but with a few exceptions, like Harpers Ferry and Matewan, one finds very little to salute.
The prospect changes when we consider certain mostly unarmed, often spontaneous engagements. They include the worst instances of mass behavior and, if not also the best, at least some of the most defining for their times.One thinks of the Boston Massacre, Haymarket Square, Kent State, Stonewall, Watts. Some of the participants carried signs and some did not, but in retrospect they all seem to be massing under the same banner: "If you are so afraid of 'the mob' that you would deny us our place at the table, then we will remind you what a real mob looks like." Aeschylus put the Furies under the hill of the Areopagus; that is, under the taming influence of rational persuasion. Under the pretext of taming them further, overweening governments only manage to let them loose.
This is the lesson our leaders seem to have forgotten and that the "more comfortable among us would just as soon forget: that when the rules of participatory government are broken, the governed have a tendency, a right, and an obligation to become unruly.
Saul Alinsky liked to say that a liberal is someone who leaves the room when an argument is about to turn into a fight. We are currently in need of a liberalism that goes back into the room and starts the fight. We are possibly in need of some civil unrest. This is not a conclusion I come to lightly. I have always believed in the superiority of nonviolent non-cooperation. The Hindu sage Sri Ramakrishna is supposed to have said that if a person could Weep for a single day because he had not seen God, he would behold his heart's desire; I continue to believe that if the mass of Americans refused to earn or spend a dollar for a single day following a fishy election--no matter whose guy won by the dawn's early light we would behold our country. But the likelihood of achieving that kind of solidarity brings us back to the subject of weeping.
The harvest is great but the laborers are few. Still, if asked to choose between an urban guerrilla armed with an AK-47 and a protester armed with a song sheet and a map showing how to get to the designated "free speech zone," I would decline on the grounds of insufficient faith and negligible inspiration. Rather, give me some people with very fanatical ideas about the sanctity of habeas corpus and the length of time an African American or any other American ought to have to wait on line to vote. Give me some people who are not so evolved that they have forgotten what it is to stand firm under fire or even to squat near the fire in a cave. Give me an accountant who can still throw a rock.

</file>

<file= AmE06_G05>

What if, in entering Fountain in the 1917 Society of Independents exhibition in New York City under the name R. Mutt, Marcel Duchamp was not, as he stated in "The Richard Mutt Case," just "choosing" an "ordinary article of life," but, in fact, curating the work of another artist entirely? In a 1917 letter to his sister Suzanne, he wrote that "one of my women friends, using a masculine pseudonym, Richard Mutt, submitted a porcelain urinal [to the Society of Independents show] as a sculpture" (42). What if instead of the wink-wink-nudge-nudge, know-what-I-mean anonymity accorded Duchamp's gesture, the work in fact masked another kind of anonymity, the one famously defined by Virginia Woolf as "Anonymous Was a Woman"?
The established narratives of the avant-garde are, paradoxically, among the most fetishized of all canonical histories. Thus, even though I had thought of myself as someone who did not have the most personal investment in Duchamp's originality, I found myself shocked, shocked, at the suggestion, in Amelia Jones's revisionist examination of New York Dada, Irrational Modernism: A Neurasthenic History of New York Dada, that Duchamp might not have been, even as we have been trained to conceptualize it, the "author" of Fountain, and that R. Mutt might well be the nom de plume (or, given her personality, the ham de guerre) of the Baroness Elsa von Freytag Loringhoven, a German artist's model, poet, and assemblage and performance artist, who was a close friend of Duchamp and other stars of the New York Dada movement and a highly controversial figure in her own right, but who has fallen into the shadows of art history.
Jones has chosen the liminal figure of the Baroness as her Virgil in this ambitiously complex and compelling book, which is the latest expression of her overarching art-historical project, composed of her "engendered" evaluation of Duchamp's oeuvre and the production of his central place in the history of the twentieth-century avantgarde; her broader desire to intervene into the gendered mechanisms and value hierarchies of art-historical methodology, in order to propose an embodied, "intersubjective," and performative art-historical practice; and her interest in desublimatory practices in twentieth-century performance art, particularly of the feminist art movement and beyond. Thus Irrational Modernism is the third part of an impressive trilogy on this tripartite area of study, joining Postmodernism and the En-Gendering of Marcel Duchamp (1994) and Body Art/Performing the Subject (1999).
The art-historical establishment is exquisitely tuned to the most minor incursions, even when they take the form of carefully reasoned bodies of thought that acknowledge their imbrication in the Establishment: Jones admits that her work "has involved  ...  struggling, and not always successfully, against my own internalization of the Ideological State Apparatus that is the discipline of Art History" (238). Indeed it could be argued that Jones, who describes herself as a "long-time, somewhat obsessive fan of the life work of Marcel Duchamp," (echoing the Baroness, who at one point had "rhapsodized, 'Marcel, Marcel, I love you like hell, Marcel!,' then rubbed her body down with a clipping of Duchamp's Nude Descending a Staircase") (101), maintains the balance of power of the state apparatus by her continued focus on Duchamp, for even this book is not quite as much about the Baroness as one might wish, given the interest and complexity of her life and work. On the other hand, questioning the meta-masculinity of Duchamp as founding father of postmodernism or suggesting a female usurper threatens the "State," and Jones's deliberately "overidentificatory" relation to the Baroness unmasks the personal investments that underlie all art-historical practice.
The impact of World War I on avant-garde movements such as Dada is usually examined through experiences of artists who were in it. In her chapter "War/ Equivocal Masculinities," Jones examines the impact of the war on "noncombatant masculinity" and is truly compassionate in her understanding of Duchamp's and Francis Picabia's decision to avoid combat and the call to patriotism, militarism, and murderous aggression in a largely senseless war. At a time when "in Paris, able-bodied young men who were not in uniform were, according to myth at least, routinely harassed by young women handing them white feathers" (61), Duchamp came to New York to avoid conscription; Picabia was drafted but finagled his way out of combat. While Jacques Villon fought in the trenches and Raymond Duchamp-Villon served in a noncombatant medical unit and perished, Duchamp wrote of the "attitude of 'combating invasion with folded arms'" (101).
But in "Dysfunctional Machines/ Dysfunctional Subjects," Jones is critical of the artists' recuperation of phallic power through their embrace of cold, hard, "machinic" projections of industrialized commodities. Posited as fathers of modernism and postmodernism, they are also praised for their experimental approach to gender, while Elsa's work, composed of the contingent urban detritus that was her favored subject and material, has fallen from art history.
The Baroness insisted on reinserting the body with all its effluences in the face of pretensions to transcendence epitomized by America's obsession with sterile plumbing. "America's comfort:--sanitation--outside machinery--has made American forget own machinery--body!'" (quoted on 130). The possibility of her being the author of Fountain is buttressed by her work God, a plumbing joint as twisted phallus, plumbing "that fails to channel flow properly" (133). But, although "The sexual, machinic forms of Man Ray, Picabia, and Duchamp's New York Dada pictures and objects  ...  have easily been recuperated into the capitalist logic of the museum  ...  the Baroness's irrational, lived Dada, however, still resists any easy or formulaic positioning within the institutions of high art" (119,122). Duchamp was always already privileged to redefine the model of male genius while fully inhabiting it. Structurally, there was no place for the Baroness to be recuperated to: she could not retreat to any established model of femininity.
This book is part of an effort to restore the Baroness to the central place she held in New York Dada: Jones acknowledges her debt to scholars such Irene Gammel, whose excellent book Baroness Elsa: Gender, Dada, and Everyday Modernity, A Cultural Biography (MIT Press, 2002) is a useful companion to Irrational Modernism, providing additional, detailed biographical material that Jones's more metahistorical work cannot accommodate.
Contemporaries of the Baroness, including William Carlos Williams, Hart Crane, Duchamp, and Ezra Pound, often demonized her as a sexually aggressive, smelly, old European harpy, but in their writings they acknowledged the influence of the uncompromising radicality of her practice. Margaret Anderson, the coeditor of The Little Review, wrote simply, "She is the only one living anywhere who dresses dada, loves dada, lives dada" (quoted on 5).
The Baroness was known for her outrageous entrances. For example, applying for the job of artist's model at the studio of the artist George Biddle,
With a royal gesture she swept apart the folds of a scarlet raincoat. She stood before me quite naked--or nearly so. Over the nipples of her breasts were two tin tomato cans, fastened with a green string around her back. Between the tomato cans hung a very small bird-cage and within a crestfallen canary. One arm was covered from wrist to shoulder with celluloid curtain rings, which she later admitted to have pilfered from a furniture display in Wanamaker's. She removed her hat, which had been  ...  trimmed with gilded carrots, beets and other vegetables. Her hair was close cropped and dyed vermilion (quoted on 190).
By the time the Baroness appeared on the nascent avant-garde scene of New York Dada, she had already been a central figure of earlier European avant-garde communities. Born in Swinemfinde in 1874, by 1903, after a debauched start as a model and chorus girl in Berlin, she had married the architect August Endell and begun an affair with the writer Felix Paul Greve, who wrote a veiled biography of Elsa, Fanny Essler, a 1905 suceès de scandale. The early intersection of her aggressive heterosexuality with her involvement in the nascent "queer culture" in Germany, including marriage to two men who were probably homosexual, informed her understanding of Duchamp's ambivalent sexual affect.
In 1910 Greve brought Elsa to the United States, where he abandoned her. She lived in New York from 1913 to 1923; the final touches of her persona were fixed by her brief marriage in 1913 to the Baron Louis yon Freytag-Loringhoven, giving her the aristocratic title that became her flamboyant moniker, "The Baroness."
Living in dire poverty despite her imperious title, she was an artist's model, made sculpture from found objects, and transformed her person into a living artwork through extravagantly imaginative costume and dramatic interventions into the social fabric of the city and the center of a largely male avant-garde. At the same time she engaged the friendship and professional support of important avant-garde women, including the editors of The Little Review, as well as the writer Djuna Barnes and photographer Berenice Abbott.
In a few photographs by Man Ray and others, she defies known tropes of female representation: less alluringly feminine than Rrose Sélavy, she is not young, her poses are awkward, her costumes strange, yet there is a confrontational, comic, still-hopeful expression on her face, very different than Claude Cahun's self-images or Cindy Sherman's.
Like the Baroness's friends, Jones too sees her as emblematic of avant-garde practice, here specifically as a sign for the neurasthenic, cathected art history she proposes. Confessing to panic disorder, near the end of Irrational Modernism Jones engages in a kind of reverse, mediumistic ventriloquism, in which the dead Baroness speaks through the living, irrational art historian: in a performative example of the "intersubjective" art-historical practice Jones calls for, she enacts her identificatory relation to her subject and her Virgil by imagining a walk through the night of New York in 1919, in the shoes and the voice of the flâneuse-of-the-New-York-night Baroness.
I am flexed with revolt--the war the crush of the city hard on my bones the hollow gestures of M-F-MR turning money from antipathy using sad bodies girls fresh flailing coatracks spiders asses me arms raised crotch shaved flaunting sex. The smell of sex deleted from their machine abstractions (girls born without mothers--gears refusing to catch--hot liquid exchanges frozen glassy hard) while I explode flesh feathers forcing huge phallus gifts upon this too cold grinding on. Menstruation--(mensickhess!). I cannot live for I am proud and heed splendor--Manahatta mangles dream fleshthoughts artwarmed emptiness (226).
This is a risky experiment, therefore all the more interesting in its departure from the (supposedly) objective voice considered appropriate for art-historical writing. Such a venture would be courageous for any author of expository text because it enters into the zone of fiction, drama, and poetry. Finally it is courageous because the Baroness was a brilliant modernist writer in her own right, a very tough act to follow.
Jones's imagining of the Baroness's voice focuses on her abject yet triumphant sexual emanations and the almost foolhardy courage she displayed in a hostile world. The Baroness herself resisted an abject self-image: "I am unfit for victim  ...  victim is mean--obscure--I must flash radiance for my nature is lovely" (219). She expressed sheer joy in language including the readymade language of advertising, for example in a series of poems collectively called Sabjoyride: "Ready-to-wear-American Soul poetry. (The right kind) / [ ... ] Lux Kamel hands off the better bologna's beauty--get this straight-- / [ ... ]--Nothing so pepsodent--soothing-- / pussy-willow--kept clean / with Philadelphia Cream / Cheese. / They satisfy the man of largest mustard underwear--no dosing-- / Just rub it on--" (144-45).
Of Duchamp, the Baroness wrote that he "is kept--fed--lulled--petted.  ...  I can only join real life not spectre performance--I lived life with my passions--myself--since men were not men--but prostitutes.  ...  I have my full power--I am Amazone.  ...  my swing will naturally go to desperation and 'crime' instead [of] to: prostitution" (142). She loved him, but was compelled to call him out as a complicit prostitute in bourgeois society, while understanding her own marginalization within that society. Like the Baroness, Jones has always spoken from the courageous place of the "inconvenient" woman, beginning with her meticulous analysis of Duchamp's active participation in the creation of his own myth, a myth of silence to insure his presence.

</file>

<file= AmE06_G06>

With the economy booming, unemployment falling, the opposition in disarray and his Fifth Republic Movement in control of Congress and regional posts, he has accelerated the distribution of expropriated land, nationalizing industries and diverting Central Bank reserves to diversify the economy. For Washington, the most immediate threat posed by Venezuela is not the spread of "false populism" in Latin America but Chávez's emergence as the motor behind the left's attempt to advance economic and political multilateralism. He has turned out to be a skilled rope-a-dope artist, making at times preposterous political pronouncements - in March Chávez requested that the legislature have the white horse on Venezuela's flag face left instead of right, so that it would no longer be an "imperialist horse" - while playing a nimble Great Game of geopolitics. He has capitalized on the rise of China and India as alternative sources of investment and trade - Venezuelan exports to India tripled over the past year, while oil sales to China are expected to double this year and increase fivefold by 2010 - and parlayed the 2004 election of Spanish Prime Minister José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero into a strategic victory. Under Zapatero's predecessor, José Aznar, Madrid not only backed Bush's "war on terror" but helped enforce neoliberalism in Latin America through Spain's powerful banking sector. That has changed as Zapatero and Chávez have joined their respective countries into a corridor linking South America and the European Union. Although Washington may yet scuttle the deal, Spain recently agreed to sell Venezuela $2 billion worth of transport planes and patrol boats, while Caracas has offered a long-term agreement to supply Spain with gas and oil. Chávez has cultivated alliances across the ideological spectrum, buying arms from Russia and negotiating a deal with Colombia's conservative President Alvaro Uribe to build a natural gas pipeline connecting the two countries - the first step in what observers believe will give Venezuela access to the Pacific and lower export costs to China. Venezuela has also managed to secure the tacit endorsement of Chile's just inaugurated Bachelet for its bid to become a nonpermanent member of the UN Security Council, which surely will contribute to John Bolton's anger issues. Last December Venezuela scored another diplomatic coup, joining Argentina, Brazil, Uruguay and Paraguay as a full member in Mercosur. When Mercosur was founded in 1991, it was to be little more than a tool to groom individual countries for eventual absorption into the US market. But reformers in recent years have worked to transform it into a real alternative to Washington's FTAA. The entrance of Venezuela, South America's third-largest economy, comes just at the moment when Lula's troubles are threatening to derail this project.
Serious obstacles to trade and tariff standardization remain, yet at the same meeting where it approved Venezuela's petition for admission, Mercosur established a Parliament modeled on the European Union, agreeing to cooperate on a range of issues, including multilateral trade agreements with countries like China.
Caracas has promised billions of dollars to develop northern South America's transportation and commercial infrastructure and has even floated the idea of a "Bank of the South," along with a common Latin American currency, which would provide an alternative to US-controlled financial institutions like the IMF and dollar-denominated financial and commodity transactions. Venezuela has already become an important regional creditor, purchasing more than $1 billion of Argentine debt last year, which allowed Buenos Aires to pay off its IMF
tab in full.
Venezuela is making cheap oil available to a majority of its neighbors, including a quid pro quo with Paraguay for support of its bid to join Mercosur. But oil does more than grease Chávez's diplomatic wheels: Energy integration, he insists, will lay the foundation of Latin American unity. Kirchner, Chávez and Lula have announced plans to build a 5,000-mile pipeline that will transport Venezuelan natural gas through Brazil to Argentina; Buenos Aires and Brasilia just signed a deal whereby Argentina will ship 1.5 million cubic meters of gas to Brazil in the summer and Brazil will provide Argentina with 700 megawatts of electricity in the winter. In March the government-owned Petróleos de Venezuela (PDVSA) announced that it would spend $3 billion to buy thirty-six oil tankers from a Brazilian shipbuilder. The deal, which is the largest foreign order of Brazilian vessels to date, is expected not only to create 10,000 new jobs but, as a prime example of Chávez's realpolitik, to help Lula's re-election prospects. In addition, over the last year Venezuela and Brazil have signed a number of energy deals and have begun the construction of a joint oil refinery in the Brazilian state of Pernambuco. And while US pundits have dismissed Chávez's provision of cheap oil to poor urban neighborhoods in New England and Chicago as a public relations stunt, this innovative form of diplomacy lets him bypass unsympathetic national governments and build alliances directly with local political movements. In March he reached an agreement with a group of FMLN mayors in El Salvador, including the mayor of San Salvador, to supply them with petroleum under preferential terms, allowing Chávez to strike into a region firmly under US control and giving the leftist mayors access to an important resource independent of the national government, which is headed by the FMLN's main rival, the ultraconservative ARENA Party. Much of this activity is taking place under the umbrella of three Chávez-brokered oil alliances - PetroAndina, PetroCaribe and PetroSur - through which Venezuela is not only offering a reliable stream of petroleum at a set price but cheap credit, processing capabilities and financing to expand gas and oil production in the respective regions. Caracas has allowed fifteen Caribbean countries to pay part of their oil bills up front, spreading the balance out over twenty-five years at low interest rates, and has even let some nations pay their debt in kind, with bananas, sugar or, in the case of Cuba, doctors. This past September, twelve Latin American energy ministers met in Venezuela and voted to pursue the unification of the three oil alliances into one PetroAmerica, which if it comes into being would allow petroleum exporting countries to negotiate collectively with the United States, generate price competition through the creation of new regional markets, and help buffer economies from energy price spikes. Chávez's oil diplomacy extends beyond Latin America. Perhaps his most consequential initiative upon taking office in early 1999 was to end Venezuela's role as a rate-busting OPEC member and to work with Iran and other petroleum- exporting countries to enforce production quotas, which, well before Bush's invasion of Iraq and the current troubles in the Middle East, began a steady rise in world oil prices. Last year, taking advantage of increased global demand, Chávez forced seventeen foreign companies to increase royalty payments and convert their operating contracts into joint ventures with PDVSA, which not only means that the state now owns at least 51 percent of all oil production but that the multinationals will be picking up the bill for modernizing the country's drilling and refining capacities. When ExxonMobil balked at Chávez's New Year's deadline to become PDVSA's junior partner, Spain's Repsol-YPF stepped in
and bought out its holdings under Venezuela's terms. A similar diversification of demand may help Morales renegotiate Bolivia's existing contracts with foreign natural gas companies, if not to nationalize production then perhaps to set up something similar to Venezuela's joint ventures. With Malaysian, Indian and Chinese gas companies eager to get in, firms already operating in Bolivia, including Repsol, will have to consider seriously what ever offer Morales puts on the table. Just recently, Russia's Gazprom struck a preliminary deal with the Morales government to invest in joint exploration, production and refining operations - which would give one of the world's largest energy companies its first significant toehold in Latin America - while Brazil's state-owned Petrobras has signaled its willingness to renegotiate existing contracts, backed up by an announcement that it would help jump start Bolivia's moribund state energy company. The Bush Administration may well face the following scenario by the end of the year, starting closest to home and working downward: A likely López Obrador win in Mexico in July, possibly supplemented by a Sandinista victory in Nicaragua, would bring Latin America's left renaissance to the United States's doorstep. Since signing NAFTA, Mexico has been one of Washington's few sure regional allies, countering Chávez's oil diplomacy by spearheading its own effort to integrate Mesoamerican and Colombian energy production and consumption. Markets are betting that López Obrador will speak like Chávez but govern like Lula. Yet Lula has demonstrated that being "fiscally responsible" in the eyes of the global financial community no longer means complete submission to Washington's will. López Obrador has not yet taken a stand on PetroAmerica, but he has invoked Mexico's long tradition of petro-nationalism, pledging not to privatize the state-owned industry and to reduce foreign influence in its operations. He has also promised to renegotiate NAFTA - particularly a provision scheduled to go into effect in 2008 that completely opens the Mexican market to US corn - and allying with Venezuela could strengthen his hand at the bargaining table. And while few welcome the possible return of the now corrupt Daniel Ortega, there are still worthy grassroots social movements with in the
Sandinista coalition, and a victory might begin to thaw Washington's icy grip on Central America.
Further south, with Morales in Bolivia and Chávez-style candidates on the march in Peru and Ecuador, the United States could confront a mobilized Andean rim, which could put access to cheap natural resources in danger and leave Colombia, its one trusted lieutenant in the region, isolated. Chávez's re-election, which seems assured, would give him at least another six years to consolidate Venezuela's position as a strategic hub, connecting the Andes, the Caribbean and southern South America to Spain and the EU, Russia, the Middle East, India and China. And PT militants in Brazil may look to the success of Chávez's Fifth Republic Movement to renovate their party. But Latin American solidarity historically has been honored more in the breach than in the observance. Entrenched political and economic rivalries will probably slow, if not stall, Mercosur and PetroAmerica integration. If the dollar declines and shrinks demand for imports, if global interest rates go up and swell Latin American debt, or if China slumps, leading to a fall in commodity prices and Asian investment, the economic growth that has underwritten regional cooperation over the past few years could end abruptly. Yet even if a pro-FTAA candidate wins in Brazil in October, and Peru and Ecuador remain firmly in Washington's camp, the United States would still confront opposition from Argentina, open defiance from Venezuela and, most likely, skepticism from Mexico - three of Latin America's four largest economies and critical to any successful free-trade deal. As its political and economic influence in the region wanes, Washington has given up trying to convince Latin America to join the "war on terror," while its trade envoys are now reduced to signing bilateral deals with negligible economies like Paraguay and Ecuador to dilute opposition to the FTAA. The White House, under the sway of neocon ultras, has further backed itself into a corner by encouraging Chávez's adversaries to go for broke. Rather than patiently broadening a base of opposition and accumulating grievances, they have pursued an increasingly desperate series of actions - a coup attempt, an oil strike, the recall and, most recently, a boycott of legislative elections - that have left their nemesis strengthened and themselves discredited. Washington may be laying the groundwork for the same all-or-nothing strategy against Morales, having just announced that it is cutting off 96 percent of its military aid to Bolivia, a move that seems calculated to provoke the armed forces to act. The Bush Administration now promises to wage a battle for the "future of Latin America," but with few options left - except, of course, the military one - it is unclear if it will have any more success in what used to be the United States's backyard than it is having now in the Middle East.

</file>

<file= AmE06_G07>

At the heart of it is the question of whether emergency contraception is or could be a form of abortion. "The science is very clear that this does not cause an abortion," William Smith of Siecus told me. The same clarity exists on the other side. One of the "common and intended modes of action" of emergency contraception, according to the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops, "is to prevent the development of the embryo, resulting in his or her death." Dr. Gene Rudd, an obstetrician-gynecologist who is associate executive director of the Christian Medical and Dental Associations, advises his group's member physicians that "those who consider life to begin at fertilization recognize the pills' mechanisms as abortifacient," or inducing an abortion. 
The issue is partly  -  but only partly  -  one of definition. According to the makers of the emergency contraception pill, it has three possible means of functioning. Most commonly, it stops ovulation  -  the release of an egg  - or prevents sperm from fertilizing an egg. In some cases, however, depending on where a woman is in her cycle, it may stop an already fertilized egg from attaching to the uterine wall. In such a situation, for those who believe that life  -  and thus also pregnancy  -  begins at the moment of fertilization, it would indeed function as an abortifacient. According to the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists, however, pregnancy begins not at fertilization but at implantation. The medical thinking behind this definition has to do with the fact that implantation is the moment when a woman's body begins to nurture the fertilized egg. The roughly one-half of all fertilized eggs that never attach to a uterine wall are thus not generally considered to be tiny humans  -  ensouled beings  -  that died but rather fertilized eggs that did not turn into pregnancies. Federal regulations enacted during the Bush administration agree with this, stating, "Pregnancy encompasses the period of time from implantation until delivery."
People are, of course, perfectly within their rights to believe that pregnancy begins when sperm meets egg. And it is reasonable for groups like the Christian Medical and Dental Associations, Focus on the Family and the American Life League to want to alert their members that something billed as contraception might actually have a function that runs counter to their beliefs. But there are two twists. One is that emergency contraception may not actually work as an abortifacient. "There is no direct evidence that it blocks implantation," Dr. Wood says. "We can't tell for sure because very little research has been done on direct implantation of human eggs. You run into moral problems doing research on a woman's body and a human embryo. And since half of all fertilized eggs do not implant anyway, it would be difficult to know if this was the mechanism responsible." Still, if it's even possible for emergency contraception to stop implantation, then it's right for Dr. Rudd of the C.M.D.A. to advise his group's member physicians, "Regardless of what an assembly of experts define, or fail to define, as the beginning of pregnancy, if a patient retains the moral conviction that life begins at fertilization, she must be made aware of information relevant to that conviction." 
But the other twist is that emergency contraception apparently works in a manner similar to that of the ordinary birth control pill. That is to say, the pill, which contains the hormone progestin, also has three possible means of operation: by stopping ovulation, preventing fertilization or impeding implantation. If emergency contraception is a potential abortifacient, then the same would seem to be true for the pill, which tens of millions of women have taken over the past several decades. Dr. Rudd disputed this. "The scientific evidence is that emergency contraception is more likely to have a post-fertility effect than the routine birth control," he told me. But Dr. James Trussell, director of the Office of Population Research at Princeton University and one of the world's leading experts on contraception, said: "That is completely wrong. The evidence is about the same for all hormonal methods of contraception. We can't rule out a post-fertility effect for Plan B, and the same is true for the birth control pill." 
What's more, Dr. Trussell added: "There is evidence that there is a contraceptive effect of breast feeding after fertilization. While a woman is breast feeding, the first ovulation is characterized by a short luteal phase, or second half of the cycle. It's thought that because of that, implantation does not occur." In other words, if the emergency contraception pill causes abortions by blocking implantation, then by the same definition breast feeding may as well. Besides that, the intrauterine device, or IUD, can alter the lining of the uterus and, in theory, prevent implantation. 
Ron Stephens is both a pharmacist and a Republican state legislator in Illinois, one of the states that are currently battlegrounds between pharmacists who claim the right to refuse to fill prescriptions for emergency contraceptives and women's and civil rights groups that argue that pharmacists must fill all prescriptions presented to them. Stephens not only supports the pharmacists' right of refusal but he also refuses to fill prescriptions for emergency contraception himself. He does, however, fill prescriptions for the birth control pill. When I asked him recently to explain his thinking on the two drugs, he said: "It's the difference between stopping a pregnancy from happening and ending a pregnancy. My understanding of the science is that the morning-after pill can end a pregnancy, whereas birth control pills will make a woman's body believe she is already pregnant so that the egg will not be fertilized." And what if studies show that, in fact, both drugs can prevent implantation? "Everyone has their natural prejudice," Stephens replied. "I'm going to understand it my way, and the issue is that you should not be forced to do something you believe is immoral." 
If the pill and the IUD may prevent implantation, and if implantation is where anti-abortion groups draw the line, why haven't such groups railed against them for decades? Some have, but they got no traction. What happened, over the past 40 years, is that contraception became an accepted fact of life, and those who were opposed to it found themselves residing on the outer fringe. 
In the current, evolving movement against contraception, therefore, some groups soft-pedal their position. "Concerned Women for America does not take a position regarding birth control," Wendy Wright, president of that influential, 500,000-member, biblically-based organization, told me. She went on to say, however, that C.W.A. does "educate regarding how certain birth control methods operate." Specifically, the group offers a brochure titled "High-Tech Birth Control: Health Care or Health Risk?" to those who call seeking guidance. Most methods of birth control can pose health risks. A 2005 World Health Organization study, for instance, found a connection between some forms of the pill and cancer. But the C.W.A. brochure goes well beyond this. Its section on emergency contraception advises that "its main function is to abort a living human embryo." One function of the birth control pill, it states, is to induce "a chemical abortion." The section on the IUD indicates none of its practical benefits (its 99 percent effectiveness in preventing pregnancy, its reversibility) and consists mostly of a litany of health complications, many of which health experts refute. 
According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 98 percent of all women who have ever had intercourse have used at least one contraceptive method. Worldwide, about 76 million women currently use the birth control pill. It would be suicide for an organization that hopes to influence public policy to assert outright opposition to contraception. Instead, attacks are mostly around the periphery of the issue: on the health aspects of various forms of contraception, on the mechanism by which they work, on the efficacy of certain methods. 
Why is this happening? What's the nature of the opposition to something that has become so basic a part of modern life? 
One starting point is the Catholic Church, and especially Pope John Paul II, whose personal and philosophical magnetism revitalized Catholics around the world, especially the young. A series of reflections the pope gave between 1979 and 1984 on the "theology of the body"  -  his vision of the integrated physical, mental and spiritual human  -  has become a whole method of study within the church. 
The pope was a trained philosopher, and the actual text of his addresses on the topic can be dense: "Masculinity and femininity  -  namely, sex  -  is the original sign of a creative donation and an awareness on the part of man, male-female, of a gift lived in an original way." But his words have been unpacked and pored over by theologians and students, and they have shaped a new approach to sex that is, in many ways, old. Kimberly Zenarolla, for one, is applying the theology of the body to the American political sphere. She is the director of strategic development for the National Pro-Life Action Center, a two-year-old organization with 10,000 members that lobbies on abortion, euthanasia, stem cell research and contraception. She's also a single 34-year-old who lives in Washington with, as she put it, "a group of young professionals who are living the countercultural message of chastity to its fullest expression." 
Zenarolla told me she converted to Catholicism two years ago: "I tell people I became Catholic because of the church's teaching on contraception. We are opposed to sex before marriage and contraception within marriage. We believe that the sexual act is meant to be a complete giving of self. Of course its purpose is procreation, but the church also affirms the unitive aspect: it brings a couple together. By using contraception, they are not allowing the fullness of their expression of love. To frustrate the procreative potential ends up harming the relationship." 
The Catholic Church sanctions "natural family planning," otherwise known as the rhythm method, but it holds that artificial means of contraception lead people to see the body as an instrument, reducing human dignity and making them slaves to their desires. As Pope Benedict XVI wrote when he was Cardinal Ratzinger, "Contraception and abortion both have their roots in [a] depersonalized and utilitarian view of sexuality and procreation  -  which in turn is based on a truncated notion of man and his freedom." American Catholics have overwhelmingly disagreed: a Harris Poll in 2005, for instance, found that 90 percent of Catholics (as compared with 93 percent of all Americans) support the use of contraception. (On April 23, a Vatican spokesman indicated that Pope Benedict XVI would soon issue a new document on condoms, which some people have speculated could for the first time give the church's blessing to the use of condoms to prevent the spread of disease, but not intentionally as a form of contraception. This may seem a fine distinction, but Vatican watchers say that the church could adopt it as a lesser-of-two-evils principle.) 
Further, the church holds that contraception and in vitro fertilization are two sides of the same coin: both are attempts to manipulate sexuality to serve the selfish demands of the individual. "I can sympathize with a couple who can't conceive and desperately want a child," Zenarolla says. "But if you examine in vitro fertilization, you begin to see what an objectification of the body it is. Today there are 400,000 leftover frozen embryos. That clump of cells is a human being, with its own DNA. Whenever we take it out of the safe harbor of its mother's womb, it opens up life to manipulation and control: 'I want a boy with blue eyes and no diseases."' The objectification of the human, she says, then transfers to the child. "It leads to eugenics," Zenarolla told me, "to wanting to get rid of people who have defects. It's part of the devaluation of human beings."

</file>

<file= AmE06_G08>

Alberto Vinicio Baez was a pioneer in the field of international science education. He was a physicist who played a leading role in UNESCO's efforts to support science education globally. His research in the physics of light led to the development of an X-ray microscope and of imaging optics. He participated in projects to improve science education in high schools in the United States in the 1950s, a period of intense interest on this topic. 
In 1961 he was invited to join UNESCO to establish the Division of Science Education. In this position he wrote numerous papers, organized and participated in regional and international conferences, and studied and supported the development of projects to advance science and technology education in developing countries, with a special focus in secondary schools. The programme established the importance of science education, developed low-cost science kits, films and a structured, high-quality curriculum to support physics teachers in Latin America, chemistry education in Asia, biology education in Africa and mathematics education in the Arab States. 
Baez's chief intellectual contributions to the field of science education centered on the development and dissemination of the ideas that it was necessary to democratize access to high-quality education in developing countries, that science education should focus on developing the capabilities needed to solve practical problems, and on the role of interdisciplinarity and social responsibility as core foundations of science education. He also articulated why high-quality science and technology education to improve living conditions in developing nations would contribute to addressing common global challenges faced by humanity, particularly achieving sustainable forms of human environmental interaction, reducing poverty and uncontrolled demographic expansion, and promoting peace. 
His writings and work to improve science education in developing countries reflect a theory of educational change that recognizes the synergies that result from engaging multiple stakeholders to initiate and sustain innovation and to institutionalize large-scale change. He favoured approaches that brought together scientists and teachers, and designers and learning specialists, to the task of developing curriculum, instructional materials and support systems to create rich educational environments that help students develop creativity, inquiry and the ability to design solutions to practical problems through scientific knowledge and understanding. He conceived of policy and programmes as learning opportunities that should be guided by a clear definition of the intended purposes of science education that would permit progress measurement and comparative analysis. 

Life and career
Albert Baez was born in Puebla, Mexico, in 1912. He immigrated with his family to the United States at the age of 2. His father, Alberto Baez, was a Methodist minister, and his mother, Talia Valderama, became a social worker for the Young Women's Christian Association Organization. 
Baez grew up in Brooklyn, New York. At the age of 7 he returned to Puebla for a year with his family, where his younger sister was born. The time he spent there, where his grandfather Pedro Flores Valderama, a Spanish immigrant, had established an institute to educate Methodist ministers (Instituto Metodista Mexicano), was critical to the formation of his identity. In an interview he gave when he was 77 years old, Dr. Baez remembered that year in Puebla as very important to him: "It gave me the feeling that I had grown up in Mexico, even though I had only spent the first 2 years of my life and then this year, but since it took place at that particular interval in my life, those formative years, I just felt somehow linked with Mexico. I still feel it. So several advantages accrued from all this. One was that I never forgot my Spanish" (Davis 1990, p. 251). 
He attended a manual training high school in New York where he joined the radio club and developed an interest in science and engineering. As a teenager he built electronic devices, including a radio and a television. At a time when very few Hispanics in the United States had the opportunity to access college and were under-represented in the sciences, he earned a bachelor's degree in math and physics from Drew University in 1933, a master's in physics from Syracuse University in 1935 and a doctorate in physics from Stanford in 1950. As a graduate student at Stanford he helped lay the foundation for the newly developing science of X-ray imaging optics. In 1948, working with his advisor, Stanford professor Paul Kirkpatrick, Baez developed the first X-ray reflection microscope, which could examine living cells. Their technique pioneered grazing incidence mirrors to focus X-rays. This X-ray focusing geometry, using two grazing incidence mirrors mounted perpendicular to each other, is known as the Kirkpatrick - Baez geometry. The technique allowed images to be taken that rely on reflections from mirrors at very shallow angles, and did not require specimens to be placed in a vacuum. Berkeley Lab's Center for X-Ray Optics pioneered the use of this system at X-ray synchrotrons. In 1993, the first beamline at the ALS (10.3.1) used a Kirkpatrick - Baez mirror system. Baez was also the person who first suggested the use of Fresnel zone plates with ultraviolet light and soft X-rays, and demonstrated their use in the ultraviolet. Kirkpatrick - Baez-type multi-layer X-ray microscopes have been designed for use in imaging laser-plasma X-ray emission. 
Upon graduation from Stanford he worked briefly with the Cornell Aeronautics Laboratory doing operations research, studying aircraft taking off from carriers. He credited this experience with his subsequent lifelong interest in peace. "I began getting the feeling that this was not the ultimate road to peace, for a physicist to spend the rest of his life designing the operations of war" (Davis 1990, p. 248). In 1951 he accepted a UNESCO appointment at the University of Baghdad in Iraq where he helped establish a physics laboratory. Between 1950 and 1956 he was a professor at the University of Redlands in California, where he continued developing X-ray technology. In 1957 he was appointed visiting professor at Stanford. 
In 1958 Professor Jerrold Zacharias invited him to join him at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) on a project to improve the teaching of science. In 1956 Physics Professors Jerrold Zacharias and Francis Friedman at MIT had launched a project to improve the teaching of physics at the high-school-level Physics Science Studies Committee. This was one of some 20 large-scale projects to develop the K-12 science curriculum sponsored by the National Sciences Foundation to improve the teaching of science by providing students with early opportunities to engage with authentic science. These projects constituted the first attempt of the United States Federal Government to support science education (Duschl 2000). Baez was invited to join the MIT faculty to work on the development of instructional materials that emphasized fundamental principles in physics, encouraging engagement and understanding as opposed to memory drills. This team produced the high-school textbook Physics which appeared in 1960, followed by many subsequent editions. Baez also contributed to the preparation of films, teacher guides, standardized tests, and recommendations for inexpensive experimental apparatus to work in conjunction with the textbook. The films were designed to illustrate phenomena that were too complex, or took too long, for practical experimental demonstration in a classroom. In 1960, working with the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory in Cambridge, Massachusetts, he developed optics for an X-ray telescope. Later that year he moved to the faculty of Harvey Mudd College, a highly selective private college of science, engineering, and mathematics, forming part of the Claremont Colleges in California. 
Between 1961 and 1967 he was Director of UNESCO's Division of Science Teaching. He also served as chairman of the Committee on the Teaching of Science of the International Council of Scientific Unions. 
In 1967 he wrote a paper for the United Nations Economic and Social Council Advisory Committee on the Application of Science and Technology to Development, in which he established the implications of the need for science and technology as engines to support economic and social development. He proposed the need for fundamental scientific literacy: "Science has had such a profound effect on modern life both at the practical and philosophical levels that no man can consider himself in the mainstream of modern thought if he remains a 'scientific illiterate'" (Baez 1967a, p. 1). In this paper Baez also explained that science education constituted an appropriate field of practice and of study to advance a science of teaching and learning, utilizing the most modern tools of educational technology. He explained that the conditions in science classrooms throughout most of the world were not conducive to the appropriate development of scientific skills: "Lack of facilities and materials for experimentation has often encouraged stereotyped and authoritative teaching of science instead of an investigative and experimental approach. In science teaching, the necessity of learning by experimentation is of paramount importance. The greater part of the world still lacks sufficient laboratories and equipment, and as a result the foundations of science (observation and experimentation by the students, followed by interpretation of the results) are often missing in science teaching" (ibid). He proposed an ambitious international agenda focusing on the development of pilot projects in all regions, improving teacher education and establishing an international science teaching center to improve science teaching in developing countries (Baez 1967a). That same year he published a college textbook on physics (Baez 1967b). 
Upon retiring from UNESCO he returned to the United States, where he worked for several years with Encyclopaedia Britannica, producing more than 100 educational films on physics. His work at UNESCO on integrated science led to his interest in environmental education. Between 1979 and 1983 he served as Chairman of the Education Commission of the International Union for the Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources. As Chairman of the Commission on Science Education of the American Association for the Advancement of Science he published an influential article outlining his view on the goals of education for the 1970s and how science education was central to achieving them. In this article he articulated that promoting conservation of the environment was a key goal (Baez 1974). He served on the advisory board of Scope, Sequence and Coordination, an organization that developed an innovative high-school curriculum with funding from the National Science Foundation. 
As a lifelong pacifist and Quaker, Baez opposed the Vietnam War and was active in many peace and humanitarian programmes. After his retirement, Dr. Baez occasionally delivered physics lectures and was president of Vivamos Mejor/USA, an organization founded in 1988 to help impoverished villages in Mexico. Its projects include pre-school education, environmental projects, and community and educational activities. In 1991 the International Society for Optical Engineering awarded him and Kirkpatrick the Dennis Gabor Award for pioneering contributions to the development of X-ray imaging microscopes and X-ray imaging telescopes. In 1995 the Hispanic Engineer National Achievement Awards Corporation (HENAAC) established the Albert V. Baez Award for Technical Excellence and Service to Humanity. Dr. Baez himself was inducted into the HENAAC Hall of Fame in 1998. 

Core educational contributions
His educational ideas are formulated in greatest detail in his book "Innovation in Science Education World-Wide", published by UNESCO in 1976. In this book Baez draws on 25 years of experience in the field of science education and on some of the emerging ideas at the time. His core contributions center on the importance of providing all students with high-quality science education, with an emphasis on technology, on developing the ability to solve practical problems, and to inform life decisions. He thought science education should be practical, relevant and appropriate; that it should promote adaptability to change, focused on improving the wellbeing of the poor; and attentive to the interdependence into which the energy and environmental crises were leading humanity; and that it should be capable of continuous adaptation (Baez 1976, pp. 42 - 43). 
Baez was also a strong proponent of interdisciplinary approaches to science education and of the social responsibility of scientists. His writings reflect the perspective of a basic scientist, deeply grounded in the discipline of physics, who is also a comparativist in his analysis of education systems and of approaches to science education.

</file>

<file= AmE06_G09>

I for one would not like to see Anderson unwittingly provoke a resurgence of the Enlightenment-equals-totalitarianism position, whose former allure seems, thankfully, to be fading. Literary critics seem more and more impatient these days with rote reenactments of their discipline's founding romantic protest against the Enlightenment. This is surely one reason why Anderson's work, early and eloquent in its defense of the Enlightenment, has been greeted with such excitement; at any rate, this motive is more visible than, say, any sudden collective passion for Habermas. The time seems to have arrived, or at least to be arriving, when the humanities in general and literary criticism in particular will want to come clean about their own partial and qualified but nonetheless constitutive commitment to the Enlightenment legacy. It would be a desirable step toward self-knowledge, for example, if we were to recognize the continuity between today's interdisciplinary constructionism (X is not natural, but a social or cultural construct) and the liberal rationalism of the nineteenth century, a continuity that's immediately visible to anyone viewing this constellation from the outside. Instead, we act as if we believed that constructionism descends directly from poststructuralism and as if both, founded on pure rupture, set their admirers in eternal opposition to every aspect of nineteenth-century liberal democratic thought. Intellectual history demands a larger view. So do our responsibilities as citizens. The return of creationism and the current embattledness of secular ideals in the American public sphere offer an obvious situation in which those who define themselves by their fury against Enlightenment reason ought to be asked what they think they are accomplishing in their limited time on earth. (The same question of course applies to the other side.) I will pass over in silence the unspeakable role of God-talk in inspiring the invasion and occupation of Iraq. But even the less consequential challenge of defending the university against its current attackers would seem to demand that we try to remember, when we speak about the Enlightenment, that what we try our best to be when we evaluate the work of our colleagues is, indeed, objective and impartial. After all, we -  in Anderson's limited sense of "we" - are not only arguing among ourselves. We are arguing for our professional lives.
My introductory foray into the language of couples counseling probably reflects a certain embarrassment before the challenge of figuring out how to argue with an argument about how we argue. But it is also intended as an appreciative gesture toward one of this book's most fascinating and adventurous themes: how novelistic insinuations about the "character" of one's opponent (and thus implicitly about one's own character) work their way into theoretical argument, as, for example, when pragmatists are "accused of being, among other things, smug, complacent, cynical, blithe, and dismissive" (15). Invited to play this irresistible game, I immediately hear behind Anderson's sentence a certain petulance (my word), as if its author were incredulous that anyone could possibly think a position has been "put down" merely by someone's unappetizing character portrait of its or its adherents' style. A voice seems to cry: Fight fair! This is not refutation! Theoretical positions are not a mere matter of taste, like rope dancing or sherry! In fact, Anderson's argument here is not nearly as defensive as my summary might make it sound. One might even say that she puts everyone at ease, including readers who are in doubt about the purity of their logic, by indulging in a certain amount of covert argument-by-characterization herself. For example, feminist historians are praised for "the more theoretically modest tendencies of history as a discipline" (49; my italics), and this modesty is set against the immodesty of "self-aggrandized agency" in feminist criticism. (Other character terms of Anderson's that invite special attention are "casual" and "charismatic.") But her most elaborate and daringly revisionist move is to link character talk with the Aristotelian term "ethos." Among its other effects, which are too complex for scrupulous treatment here, Anderson's invocation of ethos seems intended to acknowledge an inevitable compromise between abstract logic, to which she otherwise seems fundamentally committed, and the finitude of individual life choices. Since human finitude is one of the key poststructuralist themes that (coming more from the right than the left) usually count as corrections of liberal democratic progressivism, Anderson's mobilization of ethos would itself have to count as another generous unbending toward her antagonists.
When (still playing the character game) I call Anderson generous, there is little mystery about how the characterological virtue, which is much in evidence throughout Anderson's writing, might be translated back into conceptual terms. Generosity to the opponent is proof of balance and impartiality, and this is presumably why the character description deserves to count as bolstering an argument. Having generously or courageously suggested that not all the work these character terms do is illicit, Anderson might have gone on to expose more of the conceptual content lurking in her least favorite characterizations. Often these characterizations are shortcuts to important places. Illustrations of my own, not treated in this book, would be phrases like "self-righteous" and "holier-than-thou," which reveal, for better or worse, a good deal about the characteristic posture of literary criticism vis-à-vis society in general - that is, about what we critics mean by "criticism." To return to Anderson's own repeated example, adjectives like "smug," "complacent," and "blithe" are not difficult to purge of most character innuendo and restore to the level (if there is such a thing) of more or less pure logical argument. Very simply, these terms suggest that pragmatism, like other forms of liberalism, is too uncritical, too ready to accept too much of the status quo. It is strange to me that though Anderson wants to defend liberalism, she doesn't display any need to decode these adjectives or to take on the critique they convey: the charge that, like pragmatism in particular, liberalism in general doesn't want to know about the founding acts of violence on which a social order is based, or about the persistent inequality that thus keeps present individuals of different identities from participating in the liberal game as autonomous rational equals or from accepting the rules of the game as fair. There are compelling things to say in response to the charge and in favor of this radically atemporal view. Under the general heading of cosmopolitanism, in which Anderson and I share a strong interest, one thinks, for example, of arguments by Jeremy Waldron. But Anderson doesn't want to argue the case of liberalism at the level of temporality (though she has insightful things to say about temporality in Judith Butler and Selya Benhabib), or indeed with reference to any specific contents.
Some of Anderson's deepest commitments seem centered in her field of specialization, the period of the nineteenth century. One form of justice in which she is especially interested is the justice due to the thinkers of that period. It seems remarkable, therefore, that her case for reason does not engage with, say, colonialism or racism in the period. Why not admit at the outset that if the prestige of liberal democratic reason has fallen, it's at least in part because of the blindness on these topics of its most rigorous defenders, like John Stuart Mill? Again, there are certainly points to be made in response, say, to Uday Mehta's critique of Mill in Liberalism and Empire. But Anderson doesn't make them. Her case in favor of theVictoriansslidesdangerouslytowardold-schoolperiodloyalty.Shesaysthere should have been "fuller recognition of how Victorians themselves understood and grappled with the question of detachment" (64). Well, okay, but it's not as if critics (like Mehta on Mill) haven't tried to "understand" the Victorians. What she wants under the term "recognition" seems to be not so much understanding as sympathy and even assent. More credit should be given. Taking up her useful phrase, here one might speak again of a certain self-aggrandizement of agency, this time at the level of the period. In her commentary on my writing on cosmopolitanism, Anderson stresses, neither unfairly nor unsympathetically but across a certain distance, my willingness to accept a worldliness that includes an element of professional self-interest. There is a fruitful conversation waiting to happen between us - I'm not sure it would be an argument - on the subject of self-interest. I imagine, though in the present format I can easily be corrected, that Anderson would be somewhat closer to the nineteenth-century canon's celebration of disinterestedness, while I would be somewhat more worried by the "holier-than-thou" characterology mentioned above and its tendency to exacerbate the humanities' proud self-marginalization.
Though she has clearly been inspired by the work of Nancy Fraser, much of it as Habermasian as her own, it seems fair to ask why Fraser's passionate concern with justice as economic redistribution finds so little echo in this book. The Way We Argue Now would have reached a higher level of argument if it had faced more of its areas of both agreement and disagreement with Fraser. One topic I myself would have liked to see developed is the defense of the welfare state (another of Fraser's themes, but not Anderson's), which offers potential common ground between various sorts of leftists and liberals, and one of particular interest to feminists.
Fraser has no particular commitment to literariness. Neither does Habermas. Does Anderson? It seems a somewhat pressing question even if one does not want to assume that she must necessarily have such a commitment. According to Rey Chow, poststructuralist theory carries on the anti-instrumentalist protest of romantic and modernist literature; it is literature by other means. If so, then Anderson's critique of poststructuralism could be seen as a critique of literature itself, at least to the extent that literature mainly presents itself as something other than rational disputation. Who needs literature? What is it good for? What is its relation to argument? Perhaps Anderson will want to take these questions on board at some point. My own provisional hypothesis would be that she is already trying to deal with them, if somewhat obliquely, when she turns to the Aristotelian term "ethos." One way to read this audacious turn is as an attempt to escape from the dilemma of the normative and the descriptive that Habermas inherited from Immanuel Kant - more specifically, as an attempt to reinvent the Kantian aesthetic. Kant's problem, too, was that reason seemed abstract, bloodless, and arid - in characterological shorthand, unappealing. In order to save reason, and with it his hopes for the realization of justice, he concluded that he would have to compromise with the unreasonable. That seems to me the wager behind Anderson's championing of ethos.
In her thinking about ethos, Anderson gives strong emphasis to variants of the word "life," as in her claim that the ethical question "How should I live?"(11) trumps all epistemological questions. (I think it's worth saying that she also seems eager to see ethics trump politics.) The emphasis, together with the extreme and irrepressible ambiguity of this set of words, makes one wonder what exactly Anderson is trying to get "life" to do for her. I've suggested that life marks an unbending toward the theme of finitude. Here the example of cosmopolitanism might show how far the life/finitude pairing takes her. If cosmopolitanism is understood as an ideal of equal concern for the well-being of everyone on the planet, then one inevitable thing to say about it is that it cannot be fully embodied or enacted, cannot be satisfactorily lived. Yet I think Anderson would say that the ideal cannot be dismissed on these grounds, as localist-nationalist champions of finitude like Edmund Burke have always demanded. It would seem, then, that the dialogue between abstract reason and finite livability would have to take the form of unending tension and negotiation. By the same token, ethos could represent neither a backhanded concession to cultural particularity, as it sometimes seems - what are cultures but collective answers to the question of how I should live? - nor, on the contrary, a term that exposes particular cultures to the stern singleness of ethical universality.

</file>

<file= AmE06_G10>

In heaven, possibly, ideals speak for themselves. But on earth ideals require translation; they require action. If the world
were logically ordered, politics would begin with ends - so Plato and Aristotle would insist. But a little experience demonstrates that the ends crash and burn without means. So, over time, human beings have learned that their ideals need means, vessels, escorts - and that's where the trouble begins. The need for means is the terrible requirement exacted by an unforgiving world, and in this requirement, and the possibility it creates of a fatal mismatch between ends and means, lies the taproot of political tragedy. Ideals are the necessary motives of practical action, but ideals without wherewithal are empty dreams, and ideals yoked to the wrong means are likely to turn into nightmares.
In democracies, the people who either bear the ideals or bury them, or both, are politicians. And organizations of politicians - parties - are the indispensable means of political power. But parties are impure vessels. They consist, by definition, of people who aspire to political power, along with staffs whose members also possess personal ambition. They win public support by making promises, but they lead you to a compromised land. They may originate in passions; they insist that their sojourn in the compromised land is only short-term, but parties end up in the hands of insiders, and insiders have interests. Officeholders like to retain their offices, toward which end parties are helpful.
Most Americans, by contrast, are less than attached to parties, even the ones they vote for. With good reason, they think that parties stink of corruption; that even at best, parties are the property of professionals while they, the citizens, are only amateurs - and like it that way, for they have private pursuits, a pleasing luxury of liberal societies. And for the most part, except during fundraising spurts, or in those retrograde zones where remnant machines deliver the equivalent of Thanksgiving turkeys, the parties return the favor: day by day, they offer citizens next to nothing. In the United States, national parties scarcely exist. Walk the streets of any American city and you will be hard-pressed to find a party office, let alone a meeting.
A crucial asymmetry has opened up in the relationship between parties, focused on interests and power, and movements, focused on ideals. In the early 1960s, the conservative movement set out to take over the Republican Party, warts and all, to convert it into a conservative party. Over the next decades - with the decisive enthusiasm of the Christian right -  the movement succeeded. For the most part, the party welcomed its activists. They were energetic, reliable cadres, graced with assurance. They were well organized, with access to social settings where weekly meetings were natural: churches, Sunday mornings. They turned out to canvass and they turned out to vote. Despite continuing tensions, the Republican Party became, and continues to be, a splendid conduit for idealists of their stripe. Theirs was a long march, proceeding in fits and starts - a grand success in 1964, with the nomination of Barry Goldwater, followed by his apparently calamitous but actually fruitful defeat; the regrouping in California under Ronald Reagan; Reagan's narrow failure to wrest the presidential nomination from Gerald Ford in 1976; his triumphal comeback in 1980 - and steadily, steadily, the Christian right's commitment to turn the Republican Party to its use, to reap a host of resentments and recoup the ground lost in the barbarian sixties. The relation between movement and party is always a tense collaboration. The tension is inherent in the structure of the relationship. The party is beholden to big money, the movement prefers purity. The party belongs to professionals, more or less, while the movement consists largely of amateurs.
On the right, movement-party collaboration was not a foregone conclusion. From Ronald Reagan to George Bush the Younger, leadership finesse has always been crucial. A politician less adroit than Reagan might not have succeeded in brokering a deal between social and economic conservatives that both sides could live with in their common drive toward power. Under Bush the Younger, economic conservatives - ostensibly rational - had to swallow their own objections to swollen federal government in the interest of satisfying a venal base with "earmarks" and other material privileges. Meanwhile, movement conservatives of a religious bent had to accept a long-term strategy for limiting abortion (via legislation banning "partial-birth abortion," and statewide bans) rather than go for broke with a probably doomed constitutional amendment.
Despite their grumbles about the intractable sluggishness of Washington, D. C., however, the conservative movement has been for the past forty years safely locked into the world of Republican power. The party is its institutional haven, its world of networks and money, its employment agency and mobility ladder, the Elysian Fields of its pleasures and sweet corruptions. It is also, decisively, the home of conservatives' highly practical hearts. They threaten, but they do not bolt. They harbor no Ralph Nader. (The most they could muster for a breakaway was Pat Buchanan in 2000.) After Goldwater's defeat in 1964, when purist conservatives spoke of leaving the Republicans, one of their chief funders, Walter Knott of Orange County, California, gave them a wise old uncle's talking-to: "I think that you have to work through a [mainstream] party. . . .[I]f you don't, you would be pretty ineffective." Pretty ineffective is what the conservative movement was not willing to be. The movement knew its fate was inseparable from that of its party.
Still, at times, its members yelp that the party leadership is selling them out. Reagan negotiated with the evil empire and actually seemed on the brink of tossing away nuclear weapons. Bush père betrayed his promise and raised taxes. As for Bush fils, he bulked up the federal government with new entitlements, budget deficits, and debt as steep as the eye can see. His tax cuts were, for most people, skimpy, his anti-abortion actions sketchy. Far from abolishing the Department of Education - a longtime conservative hope - he stuffed it with new functions, not least the national tests mandated by the No Child Left Behind Act. For some conservatives, his version of the global "War on Terror" masked the "nation-building" that he campaigned against in 2000; for others, it masked reckless empirebuilding.
Now the Republicans are driving wedges among themselves as they used to drive wedges into the Democrats. On immigration and stem cell research, their divisions are serious. Many conservatives thought Bush went overboard in Iraq. One of them, Jim Webb, is running for a U.S. Senate seat in Virginia - having won the Democratic primary. Another, Mark Parkinson, quit the Kansas Republican Party, of which he had been chief, and is running for lieutenant governor there - also as a Democrat. Parkinson decries the GOP as "fixated on ideological issues that really don't matter to people's everyday lives. What matters is improving schools and creating jobs. I got tired of the theological debate over whether Charles Darwin was right." This in a state that, despite its Democratic governor, Thomas Frank assured us, was doomed to stay red unless the party rejoined its economic populist roots. And just this past May, Richard A. Viguerie, the Republican direct-mail tycoon and longtime conservative guru, wrote in the Washington Post: "The current record of Washington Republicans is so bad that, without a drastic change in direction, millions of conservatives will again stay home this November . . . . I've never seen conservatives so downright fed up as they are today."
L iberalidealistsandmovementactivists do not control the Democratic Party. Many disdain it as fatally corrupted by
corporate financing. The movements have gone their own ways for decades, fighting their own issue campaigns. "The left establishment," as the peerless political reporter Thomas B. Edsall puts it in his new book, Building Red America, "has placed a far higher priority on specific, narrow legislative and policy goals, on grassroots demonstration projects, on ad hoc victories, and on culturally inflammatory initiatives that expend moral capital, than on building political power through Democratic Party victories." This is not the mentality of an army, but of an assortment of militant interest groups.
Liberals and other Democrats (as well as disgruntled Republicans) had to stare long and hard at the reign of George W. Bush to start coming to terms with the party's impurities -  impurities that they might strive to minimize but that would surely not disappear. In many states, the party apparatus is threadbare and impoverished. The national Democratic Party has been a ghost. In 2005, Howard Dean became chair of the Democratic National Committee on a platform of putting national organizers to work in all fifty states in an effort to make the party nationally competitive. Astonishingly, this was an innovation precisely because many states, including swinging Ohio, up to that moment, lacked a single organizer. And although, at this writing, Dean has succeeded in implanting at least two organizers in every state, as a national organization the Democratic Party cannot be said to exist except insofar as its entities (the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee, the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee) raise money for candidates. The Democratic Party is largely, in other words, a bank - and one that is open only occasionally.
With this half-apparatus, half-phantasm, many professional liberals cannot be said to have even a love-hate relation. It is more like tolerate-hate.
In June 2005, in a Washington hotel ballroom, at what was probably the largest gathering of liberal activists in the country, the Take Back America conference, I heard Kim Gandy, the president of the National Organization for Women, declare, "The Democratic Party can't seem to decide whether it wants to be Republican Lite." She named her bêtes noires of the day: former Democratic Party presidential candidate John Kerry, who had said the Democrats needed to elect more anti-abortionists; the left evangelical Reverend Jim Wallis, the previous speaker, who supports "faith-based" initiatives; and U2 lead singer, Bono, who "crossed the line" to seek collaboration on Africa with prolifers. "If this is what it means to be a big tent," Gandy declared, "then I say let's keep the skunk out of the tent."
Jesse Jackson, Sr., weirdly declared that progressives are "the third rail of American politics." The two rails, he explained, are the two parties. The third is "a strong independent force" - like abolitionism at a time when the two parties disagreed on how far to accommodate the slaveowners. The reverend's choice of metaphor was unwittingly revealing. Third rails may carry the power, but they are also lethal. Gandy and Jackson both drew standing ovations.
On the left, in other words, liberals pride themselves on principle - and hope that if they stand foursquare on principle, the people will come around. Idealists passionately desire a public good and are ever on guard against the shenanigans of figures who stand in their way. Insofar as they have some acquaintance with history, they sense the inescapable truth that the realization of their hopes depends on politicians who are not idealists; who are sometimes defiantly not idealists; and who tend to strike them as phony, smarmy panderers, connoisseurs of euphemism - who, moreover, have other fish to fry.
The idealists insist that the party see things their way. When the party of politicians fails to oblige, they clamor, in full prophetic voice, against the self-seeking insiders who have brought the hacks, dopes, and, worst of all, moneychangers into the temple. And the party, composed of no-nonsense professionals, replies that the outsiders are naifs, ignoramuses, strangers to "this town," grandstanders, or worse, uncompromising wreckers who haven't the faintest idea how things work. So offense inspires defensiveness, which in turn generates more offense. This is not to say that the idealists have all the arguments. The party elite are tested, after all, in the exacting laboratory of popular politics. They say that they're down in the trenches while the idealists build castles in the air. Proudly or wearily, aggressively or with pathos, they point out that parties are the engines that turn the wheels that move the government that, in turn, moves things in the real world.

</file>

<file= AmE06_G11>

The Problem of Anthropology 
There is certainly a great need, as Marcus keenly notes in the epigraph to this essay (see also 1998, 242), to coalesce a density of critical and engaged dialogue and debate within the ﬁeld concerned with what might be called the "anthropology" of the United States. Such a convergence is seemingly ever-emergent, yet never quite cohesive or coherent. Historically, despite repeated supposed "discoveries," of apparently newfound anthropological interest in the United States (as Micaela di Leonardo demonstrates persuasively), "there is . . . no such thing as American anthropology's 'turn' to work in the United States" (1998, 28). Yet, if there has in fact been anthropological research situated in the United States, from the very inception of the discipline as an institutionalized academic endeavor, this does not at all resolve the conundrum of an anthropology of the United States. Indeed, numerous admirable - albeit scattered - exceptions (and also some rather more dubious ones, for example Mead [1942]) notwithstanding, the problem is not merely quantitative. For, as Marcus himself has recognized, we must grapple with what might be at stake in the very positing of an anthropology of the United States, rather than an anthropology merely in its national space. As Sherry Ortner astutely notes, anthropological work in the United States has commonly suffered "a chronic tendency to 'ethnicize' the groups under study, to treat them as so many isolated and exotic tribes," in order to satisfy "the classic anthropological desire to see the cultures of these communities as having a certain authenticity in their own terms" (1991, 166 - 67). One of my concerns in this essay, to which I will return below, is to trouble precisely that classically anthropological impulse as such, and to inquire into what it may be about anthropology, as a mode of inquiry, that desires and requires the kinds of objects that are apprehensible as something like "tribes" - which is to say, ostensible communities of shared kinship and ancestry. But for present purposes, it ought to be clear that "the 'ethnicizing' move," in Ortner's suggestive phrase (167), tends to induce anthropologists to produce scholarship that unwittingly colludes in recapitulating the hegemonic image of the United States as an ever-proliferating cacophony of (multi-) "cultural," apparently self-contained groups, without accounting for the more encompassing and systemic genesis of the social relations of difference and inequality that produce those "groups" as such. In so doing, the very possibility of inquiring into that larger social formation, through which those "ethnic" differences are assigned their salience, gets occluded. Such "classically anthropological" dispositions, then, seem doomed to yield only so many more exercises of anthropology merely in the United States. An anthropology of the United States, however, remains exasperatingly elusive. 
Inasmuch as virtually all ethnography is parochially located, in some literal sense, somewhere - in some kind of place or nexus of places, or otherwise in relation to some set of practices, which would have to amount to something less than "the United States" per se - then it is self-evident that the sort of intimate research encounter that has come to distinguish sociocultural anthropology would be always restricted to the claims of an anthropology in the United States. But this in fact has always also been true of all other conventionally conceived anthropologies. Compared to the theoretical myopia that has disﬁgured the anthropological objectiﬁcation of other places, however, as Di Leonardo argues trenchantly, the United States . . . is an even more dense and light-consuming black hole in anthropology. . . . American anthropology . . . relies on an implicit, and therefore entirely untheorized, American "home." . . . It thus proceeds, whether its gaze is focused on the near or the far away, in casual disregard of the "America" known to other scholars. . . .
(1998, 15 - 16) 
The question, therefore, must concern what might be the conceptual ambitions necessary when an anthropology "in" comes to be posited more generally as an anthropology "of." Surely, this is likewise what Marcus is interested in when he suggests that the task would be to "articulate what the United States is as a social and cultural phenomenon." Indeed, in this regard, Marcus is reiterating a central concern of his earlier work with Michael Fischer in Anthropology as Cultural Critique, which memorably called for a renewal of anthropology's critical function and suggested that as "there is no longer a secure, taken-for-granted subject matter for ethnography, it becomes more important to treat domestic patterns with as deep and varied an understanding as that applied abroad" (1986, 140). Marcus and Fischer's appeal for the "repatriation" of anthropology has indubitably been one of the most signiﬁcant and enduringly provocative interventions in the discipline in recent decades. Yet Marcus and Fischer's original proposition for "repatriation" relied upon a certain presupposition about the stability and durability of the distinction between "the domestic" and "the exotic," and therefore about what might be implied by an anthropology "at home" (posited as the "cultural critique" of one's own "culture" or "society"), in contradistinction with a more conventionally conceived anthropology among "exotic others" (e.g. 1986, 113, 138; emphases mine). However, as Amy Kaplan has amply demonstrated in her study of "American" national identity, "the idea of the nation as home . . . is inextricable from the political, economic, and cultural movements of empire, movements that both erect and unsettle the ever-shifting boundaries between the domestic and the foreign, between 'at home' and 'abroad'" (2002, 1). The very notion of an anthropology "at home," then, becomes deeply troubled, while the challenge of an anthropology of the United States nonetheless becomes rather more intriguing and provocative. Moreover, the move to a construction of the United States as a speciﬁcally "cultural" object may have been preemptive - if not, indeed, abortive. This simply raises anew the interminably bedeviled but enduringly vexing condition (if not outright inadequacy) of "culture" as a category of analysis. Far more important, however, it also raises the ever urgent and critical question of who or what can be viably anthropologized. 
Disciplinary Worldliness 
If there is no anthropology of the United States as such, it may very well have been precluded by the discipline of anthropology itself. The lack of "a large community of dense, vital critical discussion of work in the United States" (identiﬁed by Marcus - himself, one of such a prospective community's most prominent members) is surely a predictable effect of the fact that conventional anthropologists have long viewed the prospect that one might conduct ethnographic research in the United States - especially if one is an "American" - with self-assured suspicion, if not forthright contempt. Doesn't that sort of thing fall within the disciplinary purview of sociology, after all? (Ironically, Marcus's essay itself was published, rather inconspicuously, as part of a forum on anthropology in and of France!) Pervasive and seldom examined disciplinary assumptions about what is and what is not properly "anthropological" might seem like little more than long-sedimented intellectual bad habits, or perhaps bad faith, if it were not precisely for their efﬁcaciousness. Such smug but largely unexamined anthropological exoticism serves to police the boundaries of the permissible within the spheres of research funding, accreditation, and scholarship in general and is especially insidious in disciplining practitioners in the rather worldly realms of academic professionalization and promotion. These indeed are among the accumulated codes and practices that Edward Said once memorably referred to as "various modes of being anthropological." He continued, "and if we suspect that as in all scholarly disciplines, the customary way of doing things both narcotizes and insulates the guild member, we are saying something true about all forms of disciplinary worldliness. Anthropology is not an exception" (1989, 213; emphasis Said's). Thus, the veritable absence, historically and presently, of a distinct and viable anthropology of the United States would seem to have something elementary and fundamental to do with the very ways in which anthropology as such has been constituted and sustained as a discipline. Consequently, it is not at all clear that the problem can be adequately posed - let alone satisfactorily resolved - in terms of the conceivable stakes of such a critical "anthropological" inquiry into the United States (in Marcus's phrase) "for the project of anthropology itself." But this tension may be precisely the point from which to begin to examine this conundrum. 
What, indeed, are the distinctive epistemological grounds of an "anthropological" knowledge? What are the premises that distinguish them as identiﬁably "anthropological"? How are these epistemological grounds and conceptual foundations situated in some presumably necessary relation to ethnographic methods? And furthermore, what are the historically speciﬁc, material, and practical conditions of possibility for such investigative endeavors? These are of course very general questions, and are, needless to say, beyond the scope of the present essay to conclusively resolve, but they may be productively illuminated by recourse to this particular line of inquiry concerning the problematic relation between the United States and the anthropological enterprise. In his provocative reﬂections on the subject, Marcus notably suggests that these are among the larger theoretical dilemmas at stake. 
Ultimately, when anthropology comes squarely to face modernity and its complex cultural histories in its own places of origin, it faces not just another place for incorporation in its archive of culture areas but a fundamental question of whether a mere anthropology of the United States, France, or Britain is belatedly possible in the same terms as in the older hopes for an anthropology, say, of India, Polynesia, or Africa. The critiques of the 1980s represented for many a fundamental rupture with this traditional mode of anthropology incorporating new objects of study. Only by the ﬁction of ethnographic study could it continue to consume itself like it had consumed others. And if all the work in the contemporary United States by American anthropologists . . . does not add up to . . . an anthropology of the United States . . . then, after all, in what terms can the collective disciplinary project in which such work occurs now be conceived?
(1999, 419) 
Marcus gently signals the beleaguered status of the concept of "culture" as a distinctly anthropological (disciplinary) object of knowledge, as well as its functionalist foundations in a deﬁnite but enduring myth of ethnography as an intellectual means of production. Implicitly, moreover, Marcus is likewise directing our critical scrutiny to the extravagantly unequal geopolitical positions of the United States - or France, or Britain, in his not inadvertent examples - in relation to their historical or contemporary colonies and targets for imperial intrusion and control. The difference, of course, is decisive. And moreover, truly deﬁning. 
If there is - arguably, but not implausibly - a historical speciﬁcity that makes distinctly "anthropological" claims inseparable from some form of colonial (or imperialist) domination, then it is imperative that we consider precisely whether a critical anthropology of the United States is even possible. This is by no means a trivial or merely polemical question. One need only consider the remarkable prominence and indisputable centrality of American Indians in the intellectual and historical formations of the institutionalized academic discipline of anthropology in the United States, in light of the utter impossibility, contemporaneously, of conceiving of that anthropology - albeit one conducted within the space of the U.S. nation-state - as something that might have been called an anthropology of the United States. 
U.S. Nationalism as a Colonial Formation 
Why, indeed, did the pioneering work in cultural anthropology in the United States treat the subjugation of North America's indigenous peoples as virtually extraneous to the ethnographic objectiﬁcation of their ostensibly self-contained "cultures"? As A. L. Kroeber hauntingly remarked, the genocidal extermination of the Northern California Indians (whom he made his "object" of study) amounted to "a little history . . . of pitiful events," "a matter that has comparatively slight relation to aboriginal civilization," which he took to be the more proper concern of anthropological inquiry (quoted in Scheper-Hughes 2001, 14). In light of a hegemonic commonsense throughout the nineteenth century that American Indians were literally doomed to extinction in the face of the inexorable "progressive" expansion of white "civilization" (Berkhofer 1978; Horsman 1981, 189 - 207; Takaki 1979, 80 - 107), what else, after all, could ever have been the meaning of "salvage ethnography"?

</file>

<file= AmE06_G12>

Unsurprisingly, Plato praises Fenelon's dialogues for their moral and didactic purity, and as a fellow- moralist and educator celebrates his successor for expunging the form of its Lucianic wit (DD, 18). Indeed, Fenelon and Plato readily agree that the greatest danger for any nation is for it to fall under the spell of an "immoderate Love of Wit, of Paradox, [and] of Refinement" (DD, 20). For all these reasons, it is surprising that Lyttelton can portray Diogenes as favorably as he does, or allow Plato to appear so annoyed by his fellow- philosopher's accusations.
Plato's immediate counter-accusation is that Diogenes only flatters a less worthy object, the despicable mob: "Your cynic railing was to [the Athenian people] the most acceptable flattery" (Works, 386). In a gesture indicating perhaps Lyttelton's own high-minded and conciliatory stance of Whiggish moderation, Plato regards his own philosophy as the only possible compromise between two unacceptable extremes, and rejects both the "speculative, retired philosopher, [and] the cynical revilers of princes and magistrates" (Works, 387). Instead, Plato regards his politeness as merely strategic and instrumental for his larger philosophic aims. From Plato's own perspective, an "honest and prudent complaisance" is simply the best way for a philosopher to intervene effectively into the lives of others, because it enables him to instill certain moral precepts in the monarch (Works, 384, 386). But Diogenes questions whether Plato's complaisance has simply turned the philosopher himself into an instrument of power. Diogenes says,
You seem to think that the business of philosophy is to polish men into slaves; but I say, it is to teach them to assert, with an untamed and gen- erous spirit, their independence and freedom. You profess to instruct those who want to ride their fellow-creatures, how to do it with an easy and gentle rein; but I would have them thrown off, and trampled under the feet of all their deluded or insulted equals, on whose backs they have mounted. Which of us two is the truest friend to mankind? (Works, 387-88) [Lyttelton's emphasis]
According to Diogenes, the difference between the two philosophers hinges upon their choice of allegiances: Plato's polite, courtly philosophy serves only those who wish to "ride" their fellow human beings, while Diogenes wants his philosophy to teach the people to throw them off. Diogenes's radical cosmopolitanism reveals itself in his emphasis upon his loyalty to only the broadest and most general notion of community, "mankind," not any particular ruler or nation. Intriguingly, "polishing" and politeness do not unite men into an extra-national culture, but actually enslave them to a series of petty and provincial masters. Though I would never pretend that Lyttelton himself endorsed such views, Diogenes's Dialogues of the Dead speech here strikingly anticipates the radical positions held by Paine and others twenty-five years later.
In the end, Diogenes and Plato's debate turns upon the issue broached earlier by Fenelon's Alexander, whether the philosopher is obliged by his duty to the truth to expose those "necessary" deceits perpetrated by rulers. As Diogenes tells Plato,
Though the identification of topical references in this dialogue can never be definitive, the polemical tone of this debate, the philosophers' wrangling over their respective definitions of "liberty" and "government" (Works, 388), the distinctly leveling arguments of Diogenes, and the date of publication (1765) all strongly suggest that Lyttelton has John Wilkes's recent political agitation in mind here. Lyttelton psychologically analyzes the motives animating the popular politician who aims to mobilize the people against "superstition and tyranny." Surprisingly, Lyttelton does not allow Diogenes's opposition to tyrants and superstition to be dismissed by his opponent as mere hypocrisy. Unlike Fenelon's still-courtly Diogenes, who denounces Alexander's manipulation of the "despicable people," Lyttelton's Diogenes ultimately extends his rudeness and jeering into a form of quasi-democratic politics. For Lyttelton, Diogenes does not merely address rulers but actually leads "disciples and admirers" of his own to "pull down" their social superiors to their own level. Unlike Plato, he does not address rulers so much as the fickle public opinion represented by the mob. This quasi-democratic reading of Diogenes renders him more respectable in one sense, though politically more dangerous than a mere hypocritical or misanthropic philosopher might otherwise appear.
As we saw earlier in Brown's "Letter," the uncharitable reading of Diogenes easily discovers motives of vanity and affectation beneath his supposed philosophic independence, but Lyttelton is also careful to show that such a reading proceeds from recognizable motives of resentment and competitiveness on the part of Plato. With a final remark telling Diogenes to go rail and jest with fellow satirists Thersites and Aristophanes, Plato rudely ends their conversation. Plato's attack upon Diogenes's "unmannerly rudeness" forces him to become equally rude. By this dialogue's conclusion, "politeness" itself can no longer be sustained as a neutral and apolitical value above and beyond the pettiness of political intrigue or polemics. Though Plato remains the embodiment of a courtly philosopher, he cannot sustain a conversation with Diogenes for long, because Diogenes has impolitely disclosed Plato's willing submission of his philosophy to his rulers and patrons.
By the century's end, Diogenes's final role within the dialogue genre is to deepen and radicalize his now-conventional protest against modernity and politeness, so that his moralizing is directed against the Enlightenment values that had effectively structured the eighteenth-century dialogues of Brown, Lyttelton, and many others. Blake's Marriage of Heaven and Hell reveals and overturns the underlying historical assumptions and exclusions that had only been implicit before in earlier dialogues. Linked with both North American Tribesmen and the biblical figures Isaiah and Ezekiel, Blake's "Diogenes the Grecian" dissolves the historical/sociological distinctions between past and present, sacred and secular histories, or rude and refined societies, that had allowed earlier dialogue-writers to explore and moralize the double-tracked "parallels" between ancient and modem histories.
Blake's Marriage of Heaven and Hell constitutes a fitting end to this series in the Dialogues of the Dead, because it shows how dramatically the genre changes once certain Enlightenment tropes have lost their force. The relevant passage occurs in the "Memorable Fancy" featuring Isaiah and Ezekiel supping with the Marriage's narrator. Unsurprisingly, Diogenes takes a privileged place in their conversations, and assumes once again the role of the full-fledged ethical hero with an exuberance not seen since Lucian's own Dialogues. No aspect of literary tradition used by Blake ever seems conventional in his hands, but it is still interesting to see how some of the genre's characteristic devices reappear in this work, drastically transformed but still recognizably indebted to the versions of Diogenes and the dialogues pursued throughout this essay: the talkative dead who deflate their historical reputations; the notion of Hell not just as a universe of moral retribution, but as a place of intellectual debate and occasional satiric justice; the universal, and therefore leveling, prospect of death as a reminder of the transience, though not irrelevance, of physical pleasure." Here is Blake's narrator: 
By including Isaiah and Ezekiel, Blake's narrator has infused the dialogues' earlier scenes of philosophic dispute and historical demystification with new elements of Christian history and eschatology. This has the effect of undoing the implicit division of sacred and secular history tacitly maintained by earlier Christian imitators of Lucian; unlike Lucian's own irreverent satires on pagan mythology and philosophy, Christian-era dialogues rarely if ever mingled sacred figures with those from pagan history and mythology. Diverging, moreover, from Lucian's notoriously hostile attitude towards Christian (and Cynic) prophets and ascetics, Blake allows these Biblical prophets to befriend and converse with their pagan counterparts in a leisurely afterlife. Their peaceable, otherworldly exchange of ideas has the welcome effect of clearing up the murky historical record left by previous writers, and allows these figures to undo the "impositions" foisted on the people by figures like Fenelon's Alexander or Lyttelton's Plato. Hence, the surprisingly affable coexistence of the Prophets Isaiah and Ezekiel with their pagan counterpart Diogenes:
Blake's mention of the "North American tribes" here is not unprecedented, since Fontenelle had written a dialogue between Cortez and Montezuma, and Lyttelton included one between Mercury, An English Duellist, and A North American Savage in his own Dialogues. Yet both of these examples are closer to an Enlightenment satirical-relativist stance than Blake's more radical critique of European civilization. Lyttelton's North American Savage may have killed and eaten his enemies, but the Savage "Bloody Bear" is still repulsed by the Duellist "Tom Pushwell's" willingness to murder his own countryman. In a familiar satiric move, "Bloody Bear" presents to the Western reader a defamiliarized image of the European Honor that the Duellist naively worships; this makes the Duellist more savage than "Bloody Bear," but still assigns "Bloody Bear" attributes like cutting the throats of women and children. Blake's more radical stance, however, attributes genuine prophetic powers to the North American tribes, powers comparable to those of Isaiah or Ezekiel. Blake extends the historical incongruities once licensed by Lucian's burlesque treatment of Hell to newer forms of incongruity that mingle not just histories but entire cultures. Blake's prophetic fusion of past and future, however, has the effect of eliminating history from his Hell altogether, and moving the Dialogue of the Dead towards some atemporal form of religious Vision. The topical and historical content of the dialogues, so visible in Brown and Lyttelton, has been absorbed within the prophetic mode.
Thus, after the burlesque or critical treatments of Diogenes in Brown and Lyttelton, Blake's "Diogenes the Grecian" (interestingly, not a "cynic") has become fully emblematic of self-denial, moral integrity, and political independence once again, representing in this instance not so much a philosophic as a prophetic stance. As a prophet, Blake's Diogenes is willing to undergo significant amounts of shame and self-abasement in order to raise other men into a perception of the infinite. Blake's association of Diogenes's rude nakedness with both the Biblical prophets and the "North American tribes" has the effect of undoing the very distinction between primitive and refined societies that Brown and Lyttelton's satire, for example, had been eager to impose. In Brown, the "Primitive Institution" of Cynics and Quakers slid effortlessly into an equally empty and hypocritical foppery devoid of true refinement. In Lyttelton, the Savage "Bloody Bear" remains under the power of Mercury in the afterlife. For Blake, however, "Diogenes the Grecian," like his biblical and tribal counterparts, embodies the only possible protest against a commercial modernity devoted solely to "present ease and gratification" (my emphasis). Brown's ironic treatment of his own historical moment as a cheerful Hell seems far removed from Blake's more desperate and vertiginous treatment of his own historical present, which has only to be scrutinized closely to reveal its affinities with Hell. For Blake, both Lucianic satire and the Cynicism of Diogenes function as the "corrosives, which in Hell are salutary and medicinal, melting apparent surfaces away, and displaying the infinite which was hid" (39). Yet the effect of such corrosives is to render insignificant any historical succession besides the personal one that leads to and from the Fall.
We should note that in these eighteenth-century English Dialogues of the Dead, the figure of Diogenes does not follow a single line of development, but appears fitfully and discontinuously over time, with each new instance multiplying and enriching his array of potential meanings for subsequent users. This discontinuous quality actually makes him an excellent vehicle for writers reflecting upon their own present. Until Blake, writers exploit Diogenes for his usefulness in alluding to a topical figure or event. Consequently, we see Diogenes representing rudeness disguised as foppish over-refinement (Brown); or a philosophical independence equally resistant to politeness and state power, yet ambitious to address the public directly (Lyttelton). In Blake, however, Diogenes holds a prophetic vocation that would strip away the accretions of the present moment to reveal the infinite and atemporal underneath. The figure of Diogenes could operate this nimbly because the anecdotal tradition had long before established his cosmopolitan rudeness and ascetic, almost competitive approach to philosophy. These features had always given him a paradoxical aspect as a moralist or philosopher, while making him an ideal subject for satiric or literary treatments.

</file>

<file= AmE06_G13>

His rationalizations and his bitter resentments pathetically alternated with his appeals for understanding (read money); he strove for the lineal credentials denied him, and in the process learned the art of self-justification.
I do not forget Poe wrote for a living. His output was prodigious - fiction, criticism, verse - and he was never unaware of what the market would entertain. (It was his lifelong dream to be the owner/publisher of a magazine.) So he was, even in the steepest, most driven examples of his dark tales, fully cognizant of the Gothic convention he was working. But if he wrote only for the money he would be like so many other hacks. If Poe is a hack he is a genius hack, genius being a kind of helplessness to do anything but flow through the brain circuits it has made for itself. Again and again he invents the imagery for impossible love, for unrelenting hate, for doom and despair. His contributions to the short story are the unmodulated voice - he starts high and ends high -  and the embellished situation that serves for a plot. He pours the universal dread of existence into the forms of gothic fiction; that is what he does and it is the deepest source of his literary identity. It is why, when we think of Poe, we think of "Ligeia" or "Usher," or "William Wilson," "The Cask of Amontillado" rather than his metaphysical treatise Eureka, or the adventures of Arthur Gordon Pym. He is a test-tube sample of the nature of creativity, if any scientist wanted to boil it down to its salts: how we can be writing with both faculties of the brain, the surface, editorial intellect, and the impulsive, not clearly understood hallucinatory life produced in the brain's deepest recesses. So Poe knew what he was doing and didn't know, at the same time. He is an allegory for all literary life.
W. H. Auden, in his essay on Poe in The Dyer's Hand, believes Poe is ill-served by the attention readers give to the Gothic warhorses. He decides the tales of destructive passion, such as "The Fall of the House of Usher," and the stories of ratiocination, such as "The Purloined Letter," are of a piece. "The heroes of both exist as unitary states - Roderick Usher reasons as little as Auguste Dupin feels." And neither has what Auden calls "an historical existence."
But there is an almost narcotized dream-state imaging in the gothic pieces that even the fustian rhetoric cannot dim. Auden himself would seem to agree when he asserts that the "operatic prose" of Poe's horror tales is essential for preserving their illusion. All the more reason that readers would imprint on the supernatural stories of hideous passion and do no more than enjoy or admire the feats of ratiocination. We would still have Poe if he never wrote a detective story. But we would not have him without his dead women and rotting manses and vengeful maniacs.
We mark the worst of his writerly sins in the stories that constitute his quintessential achievement. His overwrought style is so filled with an essayist's rhetorical vines and brambles that you have to slash and hack if you're to make your way through the story. The verbosity, the undisciplined rhetoric, the drift into haranguing essay, the purple passages - in sum, the grandiosity of his tales - can sometimes seem intended only to assure Poe of his own existence. 1write therefore I am. The tales may differ according to the identity of their narrators, or the time that passes within each; there is always a crucial decor, and there is the loneliness of voice of the short story, the automatic circumscription of the surrounding world that comes from the brevity of the piece; and there is the drift to stasis, in a story such as "Usher," that is basically an elaborated situation. But a Poe production is always unmistakably his. To find a rationale for all his operatics in the so-called Europeanized bias of his writing is to make a mistake: Of a generation slightly in advance of Poe's own, Heinrich von Kleist in Germany was writing tales that, even in the heavily consonantal and syntactically burdensome German language, raced along from one lean hunting-dog sentence to the next.
In contrast to W. H. Auden, another Poe critic, D. H. Lawrence, in his Studies in Classic American Literature, finds the gothic tales central to Poe's work if only as evidence of his mental deterioration. Poe was "asbsolutely concerned with the disintegration-processes of his own psyche ... Doomed to seethe ... in a great, continuous convulsion of disintegration, and doomed to register the process " says Lawrence.
But Lawrence, being Lawrence, goes too far. On what grounds is Poe's psyche presumed to have deteriorated? He was the same Eddie from his first poems to the day he died. Does Lawrence deduce the deterioration from the work? But that would be to deny Poe the capacity of invention, the exercise of artistic choice, the strength of mind that is required to compose pieces from the mists of one's obsessions, what Poe in Eureka believed to be "the cool exercise of consciousness." Besides which some of the best work came toward the end of Poe's life. The truly deteriorating psyche does not turn out hundreds of pages of fiction, verse, literary criticism, aesthetic theory, cosmogony. Poe's psyche, though in a state of permanent crisis, was stable. It was not my psyche and not yours, but it worked, it functioned. He made a life out of his profound orphanage. He was a strong enough personality to fabricate a family out of his teenage wife, Virginia, and Virginia's mother whom he called Muddy, so that he had two women to love him in the entire range of a woman's love as mother, as aunt, as girlchild, as sister, as cousin, as wife. Three hundred and sixty degrees of attention. He could handle things, Edgar A. Poe. His every passing humor was their monumental concern. All together the three of them were a little constellation of misery. It ministered to his aggrieved soul. I know male poets today who arrange the world like that: they have their entourage, their devotees. They move like princes through their castles of suffering, with women strewing flowers before them and tendering hot water bottles at bedtime.
Lawrence's study of Poe does not bear close reading. He says Poe manifested only the "sloughing of the old consciousness" whereas another American writer of the time, James Fenimore Cooper, had the "two vibrations going on together," the disintegration of the old consciousness and the "forming of a new consciousness underneath," because the "two vibrations going on together" are "the rhythm of American art-activity."
But what exactly is Lawrence talking about? To speak of a deteriorating psyche is to speak clinically. To speak of a new consciousness is to speak philosophically, historically, geographically. A new consciousness is a social event, a revolution in perception. Perhaps Lawrence is thinking of the exotic foreign locales of Poe's fiction, the airless vaults, the heavy draperies, the crumbling houses. Whereas Fenimore Cooper wrote of the French and Indian War, the great outdoors of the North American woods. But why attribute to one setting the signs of a deteriorating psyche and to the other a new consciousness?
"Poe was going to get the ecstasy [of extreme spiritual love], cost what it might," says Lawrence. "He went on in a frenzy, as characteristic American women nowadays go on in a frenzy, after the very same thing." Ah, those
American women. "It is love that is the prime cause of tuberculosis," says D. H. Lawrence. Yes, he actually says that. Poor Poe, beleaguered by poverty, lack of recognition, and a dying young wife - as he wandered like an East Coast Ulysses from Richmond to Baltimore to New York to Philadelphia, to Boston to Lowell, as he tottered back and forth, eternally disenfranchised, embattled, enraged, drunk, was he in danger besides of loving himself into a case of tuberculosis? Perhaps his wife Virginia was the greater lover, the characteristically more extreme and frenzied American female lover, because she did come down with tuberculosis. So Poe may have talked big, hut she won the laurels. 
Edgar Allan Poe was of the new American consciousness to a far greater extent than Fenimore Cooper. He is as much an exemplar of the new consciousness, as much a formative master of the New World consciousness as Thoreau, Emerson, Whitman, Dickinson, or Twain. Emotionally solipsistic as Poe was, and with little sympathy for the idea of a democratic republic, he is one of those American writers of the nineteenth century who are de facto prophets created by their new country to speak in its voice. They were not
that far removed in time from the impertinent Revolution and the still breathtaking social reality of a land severed from kingship and so from the lineage claimed by kings. They understood freedom as unencumbered though perhaps unblessed by an ecclesiastical culture. Their personalities differed, and in literary address and in what interested them they couldn't have been more diverse. But each of their minds saw through to the metaphysical disquiet that comes with a secular Democracy, a country written down on paper, a country in a covenant not with God but with itself. And whether in pain, or gloom, or elation or morbidity or bitter satire, they accepted it.
These authors could disdain the democratic mob around them, as did Poe, who given all that room, all that sky and air, sent his words out from the sealed crypt of his own brain; or they could open their arms as rhapsodists, theologically self-infatuated from the use of words, which was the case with Emerson; or they could be self-consecrating, as Walt Whitman certainly was,all his life the singer of himself. Twain, unlike Hawthorne, did not find the tragedy in churchly rectitude; he was a merciless skeptic for whom the ordinary pieties were a form of fraud. Dickinson uses her words as stitches, as if life is a garment that needs mending. And in Herman Melville - well, there the reportage most dramatically enlarges upon Poe and anticipates much of our own. The universe he reports is as amoral and monstrous as the featureless megalithic head of the white whale.
All of these voices together, were they one, would suggest a bipolar mental disorder. Nevertheless they constitute the demanding literary project of a secular nation. Poe's work no less than the others' teases out the risky ontological premises of the Enlightenment. Whatever his or any of his fellow authors' religious hopes or conflicts might have been, as writers they prophesy the modernist future implicit, if not entirely intentional, in the documentations of the Founding Fathers.
The philosopher Richard Rorty has suggested that the metaphysic of the American civil religion is pragmatism. To temporize human affairs, to look not
up for some applied celestial accreditation but to look forward, ground level, in the endless journey, to resist any authoritarian restriction on thought - that is the essence of the civil religion, an expansive human inquiry that sees humankind putting all the work and responsibility for the value of life on its own shoulders. Well, what is that idea, what metaphor (for it is more apt), than a son without a father or a mother, the orphan being forever without consolation for his existence, and the only love requisite to his longing beyond his reach? On his own Poe essayed a poetics, a psychology, a cosmology that, altogether, might be viewed as a grandiose attempt to fill in post-Enlightenment meaninglessness. It was irrepressible, wild, excessive, and petrified. His poetics, which anticipated the New Criticism by a century, makes of poetry a humanly made artifice of sounds and rhythms and images. The derived and grandiose boyish cosmology of Eureka is his Bible. And living in the freedom of the happiest and most advanced social constructions, the Democracy that Lincoln would call the last best hope of mankind, Edgar Poe, with his dark tales, laid out its unavoidable nightmares.
These are the stories of Edgar Allan Poe. Not exactly the boy next door.

</file>

<file= AmE06_G14>

The exile period in England for Aron corresponded to one of high national fervor tinged by a sense of betrayal by its military and political leadership. The cause of French liberation was central, and it drove out extraneous troublesome considerations, such as how to rally the French people behind de Gaulle and against the false Vichy option of Marshall Petain and his collaboration with the reactionary credo of l'action française. The struggle against Nazism made all other issues secondary. By the same token, the end of the war, and the restoration of France as a sovereign power, served to reintroduce the idea of choice: of being French and Jewish, of being a nationalist and internationalist, of being a citizen of the world or an advocate of Europe as an integrating culture. Aron was plainly troubled by "Gaullist nationalism" and an Axis alliance that, even in a death embrace, sought "to forget rather than understand." In what for Aron was a universe of false options and demands of faith that he could not possibly meet, he increasingly elected to identify his activities with a Europe struggling to be reborn in consciousness as it was with the Marshall Plan in the economy. He became one of those much-feared "cosmopolitans" - often despised by totalitarians of the Left and barely tolerated by the temporarily subdued but no less benign nationalists of the Right in the postwar epoch.
It is important to distinguish Aron's different approaches to the United Kingdom and the United States. It is clear that Aron granted high marks to the British tradition in political liberalism and social democracy. England emerged from the war victorious but wounded. Its parliamentary institutions were intact, but its imperial pretensions had been shattered once and for all in India and other former colonial possessions. Aron could be far more critical of the United States as the next imperial pretender, while holding as a model the British approach to foreign policy and domestic affairs, based on a benevolent welfare model. Again, this was something from which the United States remained remote. The long tradition in France of seeing Americans as wonderful savages with dangerously hegemonic intentions, a position embraced by such polar-opposite types as Alexis de Tocqueville and Georges Sorel, clearly rubbed off on Aron. So while the phrase Anglo-American rolls off the tongue easily, perhaps too readily, from the very start of the Second World War period, Aron drew attention to the strains and tensions within the allied cause. He clearly preferred British reserve to American robustness, not so much in cultural style as in political consequences.
But Aron's concerns, as expressed in his major study, Peace and War, was hardly confined to Montesquieu's aphorism, in The Spirit of the Laws, that "nations ought to do, in peace, the most good to each other, and, in war, the least harm possible, without detriment to their genuine interests." Indeed, in the present context, Aron felt that such a credo "is further from practice now than it has ever been," adding, "it has probably never been very close." In its place, Aron sees dependence on a bipolar world, or at least a world in which Clausewitz's formula of "war as the continuation of policy by other means" is joined at the hip by "policy as the continuation of war by other means." In that harshThe Anglo-American Vision of Raymond Aron 39
reading of post - World War II events and structures, England is viewed as a great nation that was, a nation that "obtained or extorted" legal and diplomatic advantages by being part of a winning coalition but, in fact, was a nation more of prestige than of power. Indeed, since Aron saw France as being in a similar if not the same boat, certain sympathy for a politics of politesse and a series of diplomatic relations based upon noblesse oblige obtains. At least a part of Aron lived in the moral universe of Montesquieu, even if the harsh glare of the empirical universe of Clausewitz was very much in the foreground.
At the time of his major writings, the power of the United States and the Soviet Union seemed incontestable - in every sphere, from demographic to diplomatic. So the language reserved for the United States was definitely influenced by Aron's belief in bipolarity as the operational codebook of the age. Both major powers were termed to be hegemonic, imperial, aggressive, coercive, and interventionist (for Aron, spheres of influence rather than legitimate interests became dominant). On such premises, one might argue that in a unipolar environment, in which there is one major military and, to a lesser extent, economic force, rather than two, the same harsh rhetoric does not disappear; it is simply reserved for the surviving power by the rulers and ruled of every other nation. As a consequence, those who accepted Aron's outlook were, and remain, compelled to look at the antinomy between politics and morality for some sense of operational accountability. And so it has come to pass that those who see issues in strictly geo-political terms view Aron as a source for sharp critiques of the American Project, whatever it may be at the time. Those who see issues in ethical or legitimating terms, in which the rule of law, custom, liberality, rules of evidence, toleration of dissent, and the usual trappings that are part of a free society are considered important, can with equal merit claim Aron as their defender. The harsh, unrelenting assaults by Aron on the totalitarian nature of communist societies, especially the USSR, make it evident that whatever reservations Aron had of the United States, at the moment of choosing sides, he stood with the Americans against the Soviets. That so much of Peace and War is aimed to prevent such an ultimate struggle may be gratifying to the enemies of totalitarianism (and galling to its advocates), but it hardly permits casual slipping over into the idea of Aron as some sort of early supporter of the premises of American principles, political or cultural. That clearly was not part of Aron's agenda.
I would dare to conjecture that Aron's bifurcated vision of the post - World War II world was strongly reinforced by a psychological preference for a Western Europe that lost heavily in two world wars to military and ideological forces greater than even he had imagined as a younger man. The fall from grace of the British Empire made Aron feel keenly positive about potential English expressions of cosmopolitan identification with the New Europe. This was a far more easily accepted position than arguing on behalf of the American belief in its singularity of Western purpose in the postwar struggles against totalitarianism. And so in the depths of Aron's theoretical construct, in his thinking of who and how best to address and deal with the English-speaking intellectual class, he gravitated far more readily to Encounter in London than, say, Partisan Review or Commentary in the United States. The very fact that Melvin Lasky, its senior editor, resided in Germany as well as in England much of the time was important. Indeed, Lasky's Jewish commitments were of a similar, broadly grounded, nonreligious sort. Both men were more comfortable with the cosmopolitan approach than with the more militant posture of American Jews, even those with whom Aron shared a general political belief in liberal values and anti- Communist postures.
This is the larger, if all-too-brief, picture of Aron's distinction between principles and practices he found within the Anglo-American tradition. It is time now to turn to the exact relationships Aron formed, as found in correspondence and related books of his that addressed that strange world across the English Channel and then the Atlantic Ocean with which he was both fascinated and, perhaps, as a proper French citizen, out of sorts or at least out of sync.
I would emphasize once again that these remarks are not intended to provide a complete overview of the life and work of Raymond Aron, but only one thin sliver of that career - one that pertains to how well his ideas and influences have traveled, and just what it means to be a figure of international repute. Aron's career is hardly a blueprint that can be repeated. Claude Helvetius was fond of declaring that great events make for great men. To that one must add that every once in a while a great man makes for great events - not in the Thomas Carlyle sense of dynastic impact on ordinary events; rather, individuals can take a mass of material and give it shape and coherence in fashioning a unified vision of a world that would otherwise appear chaotic if not entirely random. This Aron did.
Perhaps Aron's central essay on the subject of the Anglo-American connection is not specifically on those two English-speaking nations, but rather on Western Europe as a canvas upon which British principles and American systems and values play out. Aron saw Marxism as essentially a Western heresy, a search for a theory of mass freedom that emanated from English, German, and French sources and that gravitated to the Soviet Union, where it became a practice of mass totalitarianism, what he called Sovietism. The high point of that confrontation came in an essay unfortunately translated as "My Defense of Our Decadent Europe." I say unfortunately, because the sense of irony from the French original title (Plaidoyer pour l'Europe decadente) is lacking. This is Aron's most vigorous defense of Western Europe as a whole against the Soviet empire as a whole. It flowed from a long gestation period, one in which Aron made the trek "From Marx to Solzhenitsyn." It remains a masterpiece in the essay form, and a highlight in his efforts to reach the English-speaking world in the pages of Encounter (which, in fact, published the essay at the same time it appeared in France).
The communist world, according to Aron, produced a series of contradictions that led it to the brink of economic disaster and possibly political exhaustion. While he did not predict the end of the USSR, his analysis of the variety of contradictions built into the Soviet system has since become part and parcel of the analysis of that system's change. Even the loosening of controls, the increased trade with the West, and the demands of technology, all experienced by the post-Stalinist leadership, led to prospects of decay if not dissolution. The European world, for all its backsliding and its socialist and social-welfare flirtations from Spain to Sweden, exposed the Soviet regime in ideology as well as economy. It is "the progressive substitution of planning for the market, and of collective for private ownership, that ultimately defeats any prospects of universal appeal or even international victory for communism." It is precisely the "decadence" of Europe - its openness to the new, its appeal to individual conscience - that serves as the basis of Aron's "defense."
In an extremely well-crafted, one might say tormented, essay, which later became a full-scale book, Aron concludes with an explosive defense of Western Europe against the tyrannies of the Soviet Union; he reminds his core audience that "western Europeans dare not seek salvation where they too would only find slavery. The cause is not yet lost or won. The struggle between the totalitarian temptation and liberal ideals continues and will continue as far ahead as we can see. The liberties we enjoy in the West have the fragility of humanity's most precious acquisitions." Aron's reference to "decadent Europe" is predicated on its liberty; even more telling, it is not based on the futuristic appeals of socialism, but on the past and present values of democracy. It was this somewhat unfashionable vision that Aron addressed to Europeans and, above all, to his readers in England, who could appreciate, perhaps better than most others, the implications of a schism between East and West in Europe that had to be healed before the broader, international worth of the open society could be achieved.

</file>

<file= AmE06_G15>

By hurling her own storehouse
of factoids at the hapless Samaritans who agree
to give her rides, the hitchhiker both affirms the universal
discourse that holds society together and at the
same time seems to mock it, revealing it to be a parade
of hopeless banalities.
On the other side of the banal factoid life lies barbarism.
In Dog Days violence is not so much something
transcendently evil or even particularly a source of
power (many of the scenes of violence feel half-hearted,
awkward, almost impotent; and in fact none of the
characters achieves what he really wants by resorting to
violence), but rather a way for the characters' true
"humanity" to return and express itself. Violence is the
only element in life that is not a factoid, memorized,
pre-packaged and dished up for easy consumption. To
an extent, this is also true of Dog Days' occasionally
graphic sex scenes, fumbling and largely unconvincing
attempts to regain a human nature that has been somehow
denatured. These sex scenes are also tinged with
irony in their very matter-of-factness.When we first see
the adulterous wife, for instance, she is having a threeway
at an underground sex club, stark naked, bobbing
up and down like a would-be porn star, but still wearing
her clunky tortoise-shell glasses, a funny indication
that some part of her has not been completely abandoned
to this act.
Seidl gives some of the most appalling nudity in
Dog Days to the "ugliest" of his couples, the old man
and his housekeeper. She bears a vague resemblance to
Linda Hunt and toward the end of the film she performs
an arthritic striptease for the old man, grotesquely
wiping her baggy white-cotton panties all over
her sagging body while he smirks with approval. (Set to
a woozy, 1930s-style tango, these scenes of loopy, repellent
Eros resemble the perverse fantasies solemnly enacted
by the hustlers in Gus Van Sant's My Own Private
Idaho [1991].) Although hysterically incongruous, the
relationship between the old man and the housekeeper
is handled by Seidl with a certain tenderness. In their
most touching moment together, he asks her to put on
his late wife's favorite dress and then plays a game with
her where she has to search for the bouquet of flowers
and box of chocolates he has hidden in the garden.
Such tenderness, however, cannot compete with the
brutality of the world. Ironically, it is the hitchhiker, the
most childlike and least sexual character in Dog Days,
who is ultimately violated. Fearing reprisals from the
co-op residents whose cars have been keyed, the alarmsystems
salesman turns her over to the angry mob, who
take turns torturing her for hours in an empty apartment;
finally, one of the men rapes her. This showdown
between the hitchhiker (a composite of consumerism
and advertising jingles) and the salesman becomes a
metaphor for the destructive energies of capitalism. She
lives by the slogans and catchphrases used to sell products
and hype celebrities, even though it is clear she has
"dropped out" of the culture itself; she has no car of her
own, after all, but is reduced to bumming rides from
other people. In the end, a salesman, a key player in the
economic system, turns on her and brings about her destruction.
Is Seidl suggesting that a market economy always
rises up against its own adherents and hangers-on,
the "little dogs" who get eaten by the bigger ones? We
see that the hitchhiker's life is expendable, no more important
than the old man's Rotweiler, poisoned in the
last scene, possibly also by the salesman, in revenge for
the old man telling him earlier that a guard dog is the
most reliable alarm system of all.
Seidl's critique is further strengthened, visually, by
the fact that capitalism has totally effaced the physical
landscape of Dog Days into an ersatz Westernized festival
of kitsch. This is an anonymous Vienna; Seidl avoids
showing any of the antique architecture that once defined
this capital of the old world. Instead, we see the
crass end results of the "Disneyland-ing" of Europe.
Real estate developments, high-rises, superhighways,
and strip malls all serve as backdrops for scenes of actual
or threatened violence (many of these scenes look as
though they could be taking place in America). Like
worshipped totems losing their influence and becoming
vestigial, the dehumanized (and dehumanizing) architectural
forms of advanced capitalism elicit a tendency
to destruction, graffiti, and vandalism; but this destruction
ends up being visited mainly on the nondescript
people who shuffle across the vacant parking lots, haunt
the shopping plazas, and drive the endless highways.
The fact that the hitchhiker becomes a scapegoat for the
pent-up tensions of the community is dramatized by Seidl in the sudden thunder shower that breaks the heatwave
immediately in the wake of her violation. Although
she has been talking nonstop for almost the entire film,
she loses her voice during and after her ordeal: the hitchhiker's
function as "Greek chorus" is silenced and with it
the sense of guilt and meaning which the classical chorus
was meant to invoke in ancient cathartic drama. The
other bedraggled characters, staring out at the rain, remain
isolated and, for the most part, seem to find little
real relief. And rather than blame this anonymous exurban
wasteland - or indeed the system itself - for their
increasing dehumanization, there is evidence that the
characters come to support it more and more: on his
scales at home, the old man weighs pre-packaged sacks
of coffee from the supermarket and is angered to find
that one of them is a little lighter than the others; he
takes it back to the store, demanding his money back
from the dubious manager. If human variability happens
to slip into the gear-work of mass production, it
ends up being viewed as a cheat, an unfairness, a lie.
What makes the hitchhiker's rape so ironic (and
sad) is how painstakingly Seidl has shown us that all
of her love and human feeling were invested in mass
culture and consumerism. She tries to teach one of
her rides the advertising jingle, "Haka finishes your
kitchen," set to the tune of the French Can-Can, now
purged of any sexual innuendo and transformed into a
nursery-school singsong.Her favorite pop song is a romantic
ballad from the 1960s, "Monja," drenched in
slow reverb  - but over it, Seidl lays tracking shots of a
shopping mall, the true object of the hitchhiker's longing.
Later, Seidl uses similar tracking shots of a neon-lit
strip mall, replete with McDonald's, while we hear the
hitchhiker singing an old German hymnal ("Everlasting
is Thy reign . . ."). If consumerism is shown to be a kind
of modern belief system, the focus of fanatical devotion,
we see that religion itself has degenerated into another
form of consumerism."I like the Virgin Mary and
the baby Jesus," the hitchhiker says. "I've got a statuette
at home and 'Lordes' water. The bottle looks like the
Virgin Mary, and you can unscrew her head. And the
'Lordes' water is inside.""You mean Lourdes," her driver
corrects her, but the distinction hardly seems to matter
to the hitchhiker's enjoyment of this "holy object" as a
tchotchke, or the absurdity of a society's attempt to
mass-produce "miracles."
Real transports of the spirit never get very far,
bogged down in tawdriness and animosity. There is a
flurry of scenes in the middle of Dog Days where many
of the characters begin to sing to each other, as a way of
attempting to connect or, more often, to spar, to take
back personal identity against the threat of hostile encroachment.
The adulterous wife and her lover (Christian
Bakonyi) begin to seduce each other by duetting a
Greek drinking song; the manic husband drowns them
out by shouting a nonsense ditty: "The little horse goes
hop, hop, hop!" Likewise, as part of their escalating violence
against the middle-aged teacher, Wickerl and
Lucky demand that she sing "La Cucaracha"; instead,
she sings the love aria from Carmen, in a surprisingly
strong soprano. The men drown her out, bellowing and
gyrating in an obscene dance. I do not think it is coincidental
that Seidl has so many of his characters
singing; his use of frail amateur voices, easily drowned
out, offers a harsher vision of loneliness and isolation
than the celebrated group-song montage in Paul
Thomas Anderson's Magnolia (1999), but the idea is
similar: we all yearn to connect on a pure, spiritual
level, but ultimately cannot achieve this. If it is true that
people can become more fragile and childlike when
they sing, more emotionally open, then Seidl demonstrates
that this childlike fragility (in the hitchhiker, especially)
becomes an immediate target. The fractured,
wandering a capella voices of the characters in Dog
Days are the discordant music of subjectivity that has
lost itself and gone astray, trying to sound its way home
in the dark like a bat.
Fearful of being too vulnerable in a heartless world,
love always turns cruel in Dog Days, even sadomasochistic,
and can only express itself as tenderness under
extreme duress.At one point the husband, at the end of
his rope, holds a gun on his wife's lover, but not to harm
him; he orders the astonished lover to drink a beer with
him, as if the two men were buddies. Later, Lucky,
ashamed at having helped Wickerl beat and violate the
teacher, holds a gun on this couple and forces her to berate
him, slap him, and finally burn his hand with a cigarette;
but instead of enjoying this act of turning the
tables on her abuser, she breaks down sobbing and
comforts Wickerl, telling him she loves him. In fact, this questionable moment where a woman affirms the right
of her boyfriend to abuse her is one of the few moments
in Dog Days that could conceivably be described
as "romantic."
But even this love, as Seidl has already shown, is really
just a substitute for a deeper,more primal bond, that
between the teacher and her elderly mother. When we
first see her arriving at her apartment, the middle-aged
woman plays back her answering-machine messages,
the first of which is from her mother, a rambling litany
of aches, complaints, recriminations ("Why don't you
call me?"); while this message plays, we see the teacher
impassively going to the bathroom with the door open,
changing her clothes. Then, with a harsh electronic
bleep, the mother's voice gives way to the second message,
Wickerl proclaiming the teacher as "my favorite
tush!" - a crudity that erases the cringe-inducing guilt
of the mother's voice while at the same time reifying it in
a further lowering of the woman's self-esteem. It is a
compact mini-essay on Freud (perhaps the most famous
of Austria's native sons, after all): the painful emotions
that surround the relationship with the mother get
deferred into the "easier" romantic attachment with the
man, but because of the psychical remainder left over
from the mother, we see that this romantic attachment
soon becomes difficult and painful as well.
Freud is not the only historic Austrian evoked in
the teacher's apartment: her walls are decorated with
Gustav Klimt prints. The most famous of the Viennese
Secessionists, Klimt painted pictures full of sexual angst
and malevolence, where sensual arousal goes hand in
hand with terror, torture, and pain. Klimt is the painter
par excellence of the sadomasochistic imagination.
When Lucky first returns to the teacher's apartment
after her violation, he tells her that at first he enjoyed
abusing her, fascinated "to see how some people can act
toward other people." This is almost a description of
Seidl's own philosophy, and the mixture of pain and
pleasure that attends upon watching Dog Days. But
what has grown out of this morbid fascination is a feeling
of love for his victim: to her astonishment, Lucky
attempts to kiss her. She pushes him away and he tells
her that, for him, love is pain: "it hurts" when you fall in
love and then when you fall out of it again.

</file>

<file= AmE06_G16>

And for attending philosophers, we have Plotinus, Whitehead, Sartre, Camus, Blanchot, and Deleuze. Ives provides the music; Jonathan Edwards blesses all present, along with sundry spiders. It's quite a party, and you couldn't find a more genial or gracious host.
Welcome, then, to Donald Revell's Poets' Paradise, aka America ("I believe all poets everywhere to be Americans in the necessity and abandoned stewardship of bliss"). Here, the poets commune with each other and with Poetry, "the soul of poems," which "does not reside or rest in them." Poetry is Ecstasy ("Death or ecstasy: there are no other options"), Horizon ("Horizon speeds to the opened eye at light-speed"), and above all, Friendship ("When I am writing, there is myself, and there is my subject or purpose. My friend makes three"). Poetry comes to us through reading, but "To see poems as the culmination of reading or of any process is to turn them against themselves, to make obstacles out of energies, shadows from daylight." Poets, therefore, do not suffer from the anxiety of influence; rather, they experience "the Delight of Influence," and like Orpheus, "go ensemble all the way in a moving space shared with the god, the poem, the beloved." Nor do poets, who are not creative writers ("The world creates itself, and poetry is pleased to show its new creation to our words"), have to concern themselves with imagination: "The poem is entirely of its real place and moment. Nothing is missing which imagination might supply."
Nothing is missing which a reviewer might supply either, and if this review already appears to be a cento drawn from a single source, it is because Revell himself has constructed that cento, a magnificent collage in which poet speaks to poet, vision looks upon vision, sound resonates against sound. Half the book is Invisible Green, a set of nine brief essays originally published as a column in American Poetry Review. The other half consists of an assortment of readings and homages. Revell's style is swift, concise, and, like Thoreau's, determinedly aphoristic. Half a page of one-liners from Invisible Green would provide enough material for a semester's worth of discussion in any poetry class. And yet the whole is of a piece, a remarkably consistent ars poetica, a gospel intended to renew our faith in poetry and remind us of why we read and write poems. A cheerful Protestant who delights in Jonathan Edwards, "America's one-man Reformation," Revell refuses all orthodoxies  -  not only those of the formalists (all too easily dismissed), but those of the avant-garde as well. As he writes in a somersaulting piece on the poetry of the circus, "Oh please, let us never talk about 'risk' in poetry! Let's have fun."
Revell is utterly devoted to Poetry as spiritual energy, and utterly unconcerned with artifice. In his discussion of poetry as Horizon, Revell declares that "Expression is purely a distance seen to close," which reminds me of Dickinson telling Higginson that "My Business is Circumference." Along the same lines, when "the poet is alone with poetry," then "Craft is irrelevant. Audience is nowhere to be seen." And yet this is a writer with an unerring sense of primal form and a wide sympathy for the reader; indeed, in Revell's poetic the former implies the latter:"Ecstasy pluralizes." Invisible Green continues a long tradition in American letters, the tradition of the isolato, listening to and gazing out upon the world, who, in his or her isolation, is simultaneously in communion with others. In one of his most important essays, "Joyful Noise: The Gospel Sound of Henry D. Thoreau," Revell postulates that Thoreau's close listening to the sounds around him, his attentiveness to the noise of daily life, is, in effect, a paradigm for the poetic act. Sound and hearing precede and anticipate the poem. "From Thoreau," Revell notes, "I learn that poetry is not words primarily. Not even words are words originally. First comes sound ...  Poetry is a first relation to the sounds of a day and only subsequently the relating of itself in sentences and lines." In hearing, we are put in relation to sound, which in turn puts us in relation to others: "Here in the world, hearts hear, and a new heart beats in every sound."
Nowhere is this more apparent than in "Purists Will Object," Revell's essay on John Ashbery, a perfect introduction to Ashbery's poetry via "eight brief meditations on the enabling qualities of eight passages, each from a different Ashbery collection." Revell has been reading Ashbery for over thirty years, starting as an undergraduate at Binghamton and then writing a dissertation on him at Buffalo. He can be trusted when he asserts that Ashbery's work "surrounds more than it designates; it animates more than it names." Those "purists" who take issue with Ashbery's poetry  -  and there are still plenty of them  -  often protest not merely against his "indeterminacy," but against what appears to be the overall vagueness of his writing, the unceasingly assimilative style. As the poet himself puts it in "The Skaters," "the carnivorous / Way of these lines is to devour their own nature, leaving / Nothing but a bitter impression of absence, which as we know involves presence, but still." Ashbery is a contested figure: like William Carlos Williams before him, there are at least two Ashberys, one cherished by the avant-garde, the other supposedly domesticated by the poetic "mainstream." Revell essay, happily, looks beyond canon and controversy; he loves Ashbery's poetry and wants to share his insights, while explaining why this work became a model for his own.
According to Revell, Ashbery, "in placing desire at the heart of his technique ... opts for the clarity of expansiveness, a kinetic rather than pictorial apprehension of whatever the imagination finds or makes desirable" Ashbery's poems are charged with "a presentational restlessness, a sequence not of images but of qualities." It is here that Ashbery breaks from most of his modernist precursors, exchanging, we might say, Pounds emphasis on the specificity of the image for Whitmans earlier embrace of worldly profusion. "Ashbery has taught me," Revell reveals in another startling moment, "that I must waste words, lots of them, trying them against and upon one another, allowing them and their syntaxes to fall apart sometimes in order to find not the true ones, but the ones that seem true at the time." "Poetry" Revell concludes, "works on principles of dispossession, resisting pressures to convert desire into acquisitiveness."
It is this insight, I believe, that partly accounts for Revell return to the figure of Ezra Pound at a number of points in his book. Revell reads Pound with immense compassion, and I am deeply moved by the way he shows how the old poet, doing penance "in a death cell in which he did not die," sought to redeem himself. Like many readers, Revell is drawn to the luminous moments of The Cantos, the moments when Pound stops hectoring and preaching, stops spewing venom, and he tells himself, as in Canto LXXXI, to "Learn of the green world what can be thy place." These are the moments when the authoritarian modernist comes to terms with Whitman, the easygoing democrat; the moments when the fascist "poem including history" becomes, according to Revell, something much more wholesome and intimate: "a presence addressed to something near and answering very closely."
This instance of Revells's religious confidence (one among many in Invisible Green) does not come easily, but one must go to his poetry for the final proof of that. Fortunately, we now have the record of his agon in Pennyweight Windows: New & Selected Poems (Alice James Books, 2005). Invisible Green harvests some of that long-growing fruit and distills it into a spirit-prose that both clarifies and intoxicates; or as Traherne puts it in "My Spirit," a poem Revell discusses twice in his book, "It was so quick and pure, / That all my mind was wholly everywhere, / Whate'er it saw, 'twas ever wholly there." Such mindfulness, at once transcendental and fully focused on the things of this world, leads Revell to seriously consider the relation of the poetic to the political, but usually to address it obliquely. Indeed, it could be argued that over the course of his nine books of poetry, he has developed a method of writing political poems in which an unusually labile lyric sensibility moves among historical and current events, registering its ethical responses and measuring them against both the facts of personal life and a growing awareness that from those facts comes the possibility of spiritual witness.
In Invisible Green, Revell considers a number of political matters somewhat less obliquely but with the same nuanced awareness. For me, the most moving essay in the book is "The Moving Sidewalk," a personal reminiscence of the poet's childhood in the South Bronx which gradually modulates into a brilliant discussion of poetry as a counter-force in the shaping of identity. A white, male Episcopalian living among Hispanic and African Americans, Revell writes that "I was there because my family somehow lacked or had dissipated the advantage of its color. My whiteness was a blank prey made even more superfluous by its gender." From boyhood, Revell's father was "a thief and an expediter of thefts. Illiterate, inelegant, and untraveled, he nevertheless, because of his physical strength, his savvy and his rumored friendship with criminal big shots, acquired great prestige in my eyes." This dubious role model turns his more bookish son (bookishness here being a sign of rebellion) into a thief of language  -  but not before he passes through his own more literal criminal initiation as an adolescent member of a violent street gang. Again, Revell startles us with his revelations: the young poet turns to formalism for just the same reason he joined a gang. Writing of From the Abandoned Cities, his first book (winner of the 1983 open competition of the National Poetry Series), Revell declares that "Form gave me the illusion of control and escape. It made me feel like an insider, an initiate of mysteries, sheltered from chaos. But my poems were false interiors ...  The shadow-class of gangs remained their source. Contrived, not made, their music was a self-devouring silence."
This is tough stuff. But even tougher is the sight of Revell's father, lost in an airport when he picks up his son from his first trip by plane. Revell finds this violent man, so capable within his circumscribed life, in tears on a moving sidewalk, unable to read the monitors and in desperate need of rescue. Suddenly, the young poet can "think of poetry not as theft nor as a shadow power, but as an act of love: an unrehearsed, unclarifying unstructuring summons to the summons of the present moment." Thus for Revell, "Class is an understanding best refused, an explanation best forgotten."
And where, one may ask, is that understanding and that refusal truly possible? Where can one remake oneself through an act of the imagination, turning away from one's class origins without ever having to fully renounce them? Where is that "unstructuring summons" heard again and again? The answer is simple: "A bliss began to happen somewhere. There was America." Revell's love of America is not so much patriotic as Utopian, and in this respect it goes hand-in-hand with his ecstatic Protestantism, his communion of self and soul. Like his Transcendentalist forebears  -  and like Ronald Johnson, his older contemporary  -  Revell seizes upon an impossible "model of American ecstasy, a method of American poetic peace ...  Vision leads the harmless eye to Visionary peace, right here, right now. America at peace is the only real America." That this was written in early October 2001 makes Re veil's visionary idealism all the more poignant  -  and all the more necessary. When has America been at peace? As the bombs begin to fall, Revell stops receiving the newspaper, and when his son complains that he misses the news, the poet "pointed to the red sunrise reflected on the near Spring Mountains and said 'There's the news.'

</file>

<file= AmE06_G17>

In 1980 historian William Appleman Williams warned that the only way to create viable American identities, communities,
and cultures would be to understand and acknowledge
our imperial past so that we can become ''citizens - not imperial
overlords - of the world.''1 In the years since Williams's politically
charged statement, scholars have taken the first steps toward examining
American literature as part of what Amy Kaplan and Donald
Pease refer to as the ''cultures of United States imperialism.''2 Moreover,
the broader field of American studies has seen a renewed interest
in issues involving contemporary citizenship, particularly as they
relate to minority rights. Most recently, the term cultural citizenship
has begun to circulate in reference to the relationship between one's
identity (race, class, gender, language, nationality) and the nonlegal
aspects of one's citizenship (access to resources, involvement in the
labor force, participation in public discourse, relationship to the environment,
education).3 These developments in the fields of American
literature and American studies are extremely useful for reading Toni
Morrison's Paradise because they give the novel renewed exigency at
the same time that they alter how we understand the novel's black
characters and their relationship to (white) America.
Like many others, I read Paradise as both a history and a critique of
history; however, I situate the novel specifically within the context of
westward expansion and the subsequent establishment of an American
empire.4 As a critic, I understand homesteading to be a euphemism
for settler colonialism. Like many other instances of colonialism
throughout the nineteenth and twentieth centuries, American settler colonialism was shaped by both federal imperial policies (at
home and abroad) and by race, class, and gender ideologies generated
within domestic culture. My essay works from these assumptions
to analyze how Morrison's residents of Ruby, Oklahoma, as cultural
citizens, participate in their local, national, and global communities.
U.S. imperial culture affects the viability of their participation, which
the novel calls into question with its framework of murder and self-destruction.
Furthermore, the much-debated final chapter, in which
Morrison depicts the afterlives of the murdered women in the convent,
provides a glimpse of the alternative, magical forms of cultural
citizenship that Paradise offers for consideration. My reading of the
novel answers two large questions: What forms of cultural citizenship
does Paradise imagine when it retells the story of American settler
colonialism from a black perspective? And what happens when we
read Paradise as a text that envisions an American landscape in which
an individual's cultural citizenship is tied to his or her ability to recognize
the effects of U.S. imperialism?
More Than a New Western History
Almost all of Ruby's black residents, some more so than others, descend
from the novel's original ex-slave families who, in 1890, set out
from Louisiana in search of a land where they might begin their own
reconstruction. As a community, these families moved west in search
of new cultural, legal, and economic identities. Although most of the
novel's events occur between 1965 and 1976, they are shaped by the
original exodus - its motives, accomplishments, and failures. Thus,
the families' participation in the homestead movement of the late nineteenth
century figures as a horizon against which one reads the novel's
twentieth-century story line, much in the same way that the frontier
has been a backdrop to standard twentieth-century American history.
Morrison's characters, however, are by no means the standard
(white) settlers. Modeled after black Americans who participated in
the Exoduster movement (1877 - 79), the residents of Ruby descend
from a group of black homesteaders who, in the wake of Reconstruction's
failure, moved west in search of the sort of social freedoms and
opportunities promised them by the Emancipation Proclamation. The
actual Exoduster movement, so named because emancipated slaves
left the South in a manner similar to the great Exodus from Egypt, began in Tennessee. Its leader was Benjamin ''Pap'' Singleton, an
ex-slave from Nashville who founded the Edgefield Real Estate and
Homestead Association in an attempt to facilitate black homesteading
in Kansas. As a result of the Exoduster movement, approximately
twenty-thousand black Americans settled in Kansas during the second
half of the 1870s.5 Even though several differences set the characters
of Morrison's novel apart from their historical referents (for
example, Morrison's exodus happens more than a decade after the
actual Exoduster movement, and her characters settle in Oklahoma
instead of the more popular Kansas), one major similarity beyond
the obvious connects the two. Morrison's homesteaders are led by
Zechariah ''Coffee'' Morgan, also known as Big Papa, who seems to
be modeled directly after Benjamin ''Pap'' Singleton and his leadership
of the historical Exodusters. (Singleton later called himself the
''father'' of the Exoduster movement.) Given that much of Paradise
imagines the problems inherent in such a patriarchal leadership, it
seems reasonable to assume that Morrison fictionally represents an
often overlooked chapter of African American history so that she may
reexamine the issue of black patriarchy and its relationship to (white)
American society through its most influential imperial narrative to
date: the ongoing story of America's manifest destiny.
Before exploring this larger ideological framework and its impact on
Morrison's characters, I begin by examining the novel's participation
in a much more regional debate. By grounding Paradise in the history
of the Exoduster movement, Morrison challenges both the method
and content of the standard history of the West, thus making the
novel a participant in a current academic debate between old and new
Western American history. Since the 1980s, scholars who dub themselves
''New Western Historians'' have questioned the late-nineteenth century's
narrative of the West, especially Frederick Jackson Turner's
analysis of the frontier. These historians have argued for ''New Western''
histories that pull aside Turner's vision of the noble frontiersman
setting forth to civilize the wilderness to reveal instead a West already
peopled by Native Americans, African Americans, Mexicans, French
and Spanish colonial traders, and Chinese immigrants. In order to
make room for these histories, New Western historians have worked
to expose Turner's narrative for what it is: not a history of the American West
but a history written by and for the (white) American public.
Standard Western American history produced in the wake of Turner's foundational narrative tends to figure the West as a vast, empty
landscape. Not insignificant is the fact that this emptiness was commonly
viewed as bordered by white settlements in the Midwest and
California, threatened by tribes of purportedly violent Native Americans,
yet ''destined'' to become part of the sovereign United States.
With some reflection, one comes to realize that in this standard American
history the West functions all at once as a geographic utopia, a
battleground for the American way of life, and an imperial dreamscape.
Deborah Popper, Frank Popper, and Robert Lang have traced
these functions of the West as they pertain to Turner's thesis, which
successfully supported ''old'' Western American history throughout
most of the twentieth century. Their essay ''From Maps to Myth''
unveils the fact that Turner's thesis stemmed from neither his archival
research nor his field work but from his ability to write a narrative
about the West's political and cultural significance to the American
way of life, without his audience suspecting that he had conflated two
previously distinct definitions of the term frontier. In its first sense,
frontier, as defined by U.S. Census officials, describes a region as being
only partially settled. In this definition, frontier participates in a three-part
population scale, including ''[1] wilderness or vacant land - that
is, unsettled land - with less than two people per square mile . . . ;
[2] frontier or partial settlement, with between two and six people
per square mile; and [3] fully settled places, with six or more people
per square mile.''6 Unfortunately, as the authors point out, until 1890
(only three years before Turner first presented his frontier thesis), the
category people, which determines this first meaning of frontier, only
included U.S. citizens and tax-paying Native Americans (''MM,'' 93).
Already, forms of legal and cultural citizenship were shaping narratives
of the American West.
The second definition of the frontier offered by Census officials
refers to the ''line [that] delimited the western edge of all continuous
east-to-west settlements; it split frontier from wilderness by dividing
places with more than two people per square mile from those with
fewer'' (''MM,'' 92 - 93). To Turner's great benefit, in 1890 the Census
declared this term obsolete. Once the official frontier line west
of the Mississippi had been superseded by white American settlements
in California, and the frontier dotted with a handful of small
towns throughout Kansas and other territories, the Census officials
declared that ''at present the unsettled land has been so broken into by isolated bodies of settlement that there can hardly be said to be
a frontier line.''7 As the frontier line became fragmented, it seemed
only a matter of time until the West would be ''fully settled,'' a prospect
that delighted Census officials who felt that the cultural status
of the United States abroad depended upon its ability to claim urban
development at home (''MM,'' 94). Popper, Lang, and Popper argue
that Turner similarly looked forward to an urban American landscape
although he sought to subdue fears that rural culture would be out
of place in this new America. By joining the first definition of frontier
to the Census's claim that the frontier line had vanished, Turner
conflated the two terms, declared the frontier a moot point, and transformed
it into a bildungsroman, which, he argued, the American character
would pass through to come out fully formed and exceptional.
In short, ''Turner invoked the Census's profane land category to preserve
a sacred metaphor; geographic logic gave way to national symbolism''
(''MM,'' 96).
And so in 1893, when Turner first presented his findings to the
American Historical Association in Chicago and then later in 1896
when he published the essay ''The Problems of the West'' in the Atlantic
Monthly, he declared to (white) America that as homesteaders
fulfilled the U.S. destiny to settle the American West, the American
character would be forever marked by such qualities as hard work,
perseverance, determination, and a capitalist drive, all of which helped
quiet urban America's fears regarding the socialist politics that some
leaders of the Populist and Farmers Alliance movements were promoting
at the time (''MM,'' 96).8 For the most part, Turner's brand
of Western American history reigned for the next one hundred years,
despite its dated political motivations. In 1987, however, Patricia Nelson
Limerick opened fire on Turner's methodology, if not his view
of the American character, when she argued that the word frontier
should be replaced by the more accurate term conquest. Instead of
viewing the land as once unpeopled and therefore properly used by
white men (and women) to its fullest potential - an argument similar
to the one that helped rationalize the first British empire in North
America - Limerick argued that American historians should view the
West as a land of conquest.9
It might appear that Limerick kicked off the debate over old and
new Western history; however, scholars of African American, Native
American, Chinese American, and Mexican American history began the first campaigns against Turner's legacy in the 1960s. Their efforts
to uncover, retrieve, and retell narratives about minorities in the West
implicitly challenged the cultural assumption that the frontier was
unpopulated and thus a region without a history, an aim made explicit
by later New Western historians. Upon closer inspection, however, it
becomes apparent that what marked Limerick's argument as new was
not that it challenged Turner's content but that it directly questioned,
if not rejected, his overall methodology and assumptions. The project
of New Western historians is not simply to insert nonwhites into Western
American history and culture but to shift the grounds of the discourse
itself: to understand the West not as Turner's process of settlement - 
now over but with far-reaching cultural effects - but as a place,
a geographic region with its own histories, populations, and cultures.10
By dissecting the American West from Turner's unilateral view of U.S.
culture, New Western historians have been able to contextualize their
research within both the specifics of the West and the generalities of
the American cultural landscape.

</file>

<file= AmE06_G18>

AMERICA'S MODERN LOVE affair with real estate probably began in 1934, when Congress created the Federal Housing Administration (FHA). Even though the nation was then in the grip of the Great Depression, the number of housing starts soared, rising from 93,000 in 1933 to 619,000 in 1941.
Before the FHA, Americans needed substantial amounts of money--up to a third of the value of a home--to secure a mortgage. And what they got were, in effect, "balloon" mortgages; after five to seven years, buyers had to secure new loans or, in many cases, were forced to sell their homes.
The FHA revolutionized home finance by extending guarantees to qualified buyers, allowing them to borrow from banks at low rates for increasingly longer terms with down payments of only 10 percent. But the revolution bypassed an important group: African Americans. Whites were given a generation's head start on accumulating wealth through homeownership. Today, the median white household has 10 times as much wealth as the median black household.
The FHA, says Adam Gordon, a third-year law student and senior editor at The Yale Law Journal, established underwriting guidelines that were based on the racial makeup of a neighborhood. Areas with a greater proportion of whites, in the FHA model, were deemed to have stable, relatively high property values, while predominately black neighborhoods were assumed to have low values. This loan-granting model severely limited access to FHA mortgages for black Americans. In 1960, nonwhites held only 2.5 percent of FHA-insured loans.
This story is well known to scholars. What's disputed is how much difference the FHA policies actually made. If there was sufficient demand among black home buyers, some scholars argue, private mortgage insurers would have stepped in to serve those excluded by the FHA. Gordon believes he has the explanation for why this did not happen: Because private lenders adopted the same flawed FHA lending model, their discriminatory criteria "effectively became binding law."
In November 1962, President John F. Kennedy signed an executive order directing the FHA to make its loans available regardless of "race, color, creed, or national origin." That order, and later reforms, such as the Fair Housing Act of 1968, put blacks on nearly equal terms with whites when buying a home, but three decades of discrimination had already prevented many blacks from "becoming homeowners and building assets."
Gordon argues that further remedies are needed. Among the options are stepped-up attacks on exclusionary zoning and "mobility grants" for blacks in the form of direct payments--in effect, reparations--or mortgage subsidies. The straightforward anti-discrimination steps taken so far fail "to adequately address  ...  the past disparity in wealth building" and its consequences--the segregated, depressed neighborhoods "that the FHA helped create."

AT THE HEART OF THE DEBATE about whether the United States should retain capital punishment is the question of whether it deters murder. Some argue that executing murderers may actually cause more murders by desensitizing society at large to killing. But over the years, several studies have shown that killing convicted murderers does deter future murders. After reanalyzing the data used in the most prominent of these studies, however, Yale law professor John J. Donohue and Wharton business professor Justin Wolfers conclude that none of them demonstrates a clear deterrent effect.
Donohue and Wolfers tested the findings of original studies by covering a different time period, introducing comparison groups, changing the variables, and using other alternative analytical techniques. The fundamental difficulty with all these studies is that executions occur so rarely in the United States, they write. Thus, the number of homicides the death penalty can plausibly have caused or deterred cannot be reliably disentangled from the large year-to-year changes in the homicide rate caused by other factors.
One of the most often cited capital punishment studies is by economist Isaac Ehrlich, who changed the American debate with a 1975 analysis of national time-series data that led him to claim that each execution saved eight lives.The Supreme Court had ruled three years earlier that existing death penalty statutes were unconstitutional, but a year after
Ehrlich released his study, the Court ended the death penalty moratorium in Gregg v. Georgia. Ehrlich's results have been questioned over the years. Though his study covered the years 1935 to 1969, his conclusion that the death penalty is a deterrent relied heavily on an upsurge in the homicide rate after 1962, combined with a fall in the execution rate during the same period. A 1978 National Academy of Sciences report pointed out that this "simple pairing" of more murders and fewer executions between 1963 and 1969 explained his results. For all of his sophisticated econometric analyses, Ehrlich did not fully take into account other influences on the homicide rate.
In a 2004 study, Hashem Dezhbakhsh and Joanna M. Shepherd analyzed the same kind of data Ehrlich considered for the period 1960 to 2000 and suggested that around 150 fewer homicides occur per execution. But this study included the same distorting mid-1960s period. And Dezhbakhsh and Shepherd's ease was also helped by the fact that homicide rates were higher during the death penalty moratorium in the mid-1970s than during the early or late years of the decade. The obvious implication that lifting the death penalty explains the difference, however, is contradicted by the fact that there was also an upsurge in murders in states where the death penalty laws did not change.
Another problem with studies such as these two is that their conclusions don't hold up when examined against comparison cases, say Donohue and Wolfers. Canada hasn't executed anyone since 1962, though narrow death penalty statutes remained on the books until 1998. Yet Canada's homicide rate has moved in virtual lockstep with that of the United States. And within the United States, homicide rates in the six states that had no death penalty between 1960 and 2000 moved in close concert with those of states that did have death penalty statutes in effect during at least some portion of that period.
Despite efforts to control for a range of social and economic trends, say Donohue and Wolfers, the studies failed to capture some of the factors that influence homicide rates. Of the half-dozen or so studies that Donohue and Wolfers scrutinized, none produced statistically significant evidence of deterrence upon re-examination.
Noting the impact of such studies on public policy, the authors caution against rushing to change the law based on any study that hasn't stood the test of time and rigorous scientific validation.

IN AN ERA OF INCREASING religious tolerance, only one group of Americans approaches something like pariah status: atheists.
In a survey of more than 2,000 people, nearly 40 percent said that atheists, much more so than Muslims and homosexuals, did not agree "at all" with their vision of American society, report Penny Edgell, Joseph Gerteis, and Douglas Hartmann, all sociologists at the University of Minnesota. Just under half of those polled said that they would disapprove if one of their children wanted to marry an atheist. A third said they would disapprove of a Muslim spouse.
Churchgoers, conservative Protestants, and people who say that religion is highly salient to their lives are less likely to approve of intermarriage with nonbelievers and more likely to say that atheists do not share their vision of American society. White Americans, males, and college graduates are somewhat more accepting of atheists than are nonwhites, females, and people without college degrees. Not surprisingly, the lowest rate of rejection of atheists is among those who do not go to church or claim a religious identity, and who report that religion is "not at all" salient to them. Yet even 17 percent of these survey respondents say that atheists do not at all share their vision of America, and one-tenth indicate that they would disapprove of their child marrying an atheist.
It may come as a surprise that nonbelievers are actually hard to find. Only about one percent of Americans self-identify as atheists, though the real number may be up to three percent. And the members of this small band would be hard to identify, since there are no visible signs of nonbelief.
The attitude toward these godless few is telling, write the authors. "If we are correct, then the boundary between the religious and the nonreligious is not about religious affiliation per se. It is about the historic place of religion in American civic culture and the understanding that religion provides the 'habits of the heart' that form the basis of the good society. It is about an understanding that Americans share something more than rules and procedures, but rather that our understandings of right and wrong and good citizenship are also shared."

THE GLOBAL WARMING DEBATE is gridlocked in part because the problem seems almost too big and costly to solve. That's foolish, argues Gregg Easterbrook: "Greenhouse gases are an air pollution problem, and all air pollution problems of the past have cost significantly less to fix than projected, while declining faster than expected."
Easterbrook, a visiting fellow at the Brookings Institution, detailed that history in his 1995 book A Moment on the Earth. He also criticized environmentalists (with whom he was sympathetic) fur inducing gloom about what could be accomplished in the future by ignoring the great gains America had already made in reducing pollution. At the time, he was somewhat skeptical of claims about human-caused global warming, but no longer. The question now is what to do about it.
Critics of the Kyoto Protocol, ratified by more than 160 countries but not the United States, are right, Easterbrook says. Even if the treaty were perfectly enforced, "atmospheric concentrations of greenhouse gases in 2050 would be only about one percent less than without the treaty." (The Bush administration's unsung multinational methane reduction pact of 2003, Easterbrook adds, "may do more to slow global warming than perfect compliance with the Kyoto treaty.") And perfect compliance is a pipe dream: "Most nations that have ratified the Kyoto treaty are merrily ignoring it." Canada's greenhouse gas emissions are 24 percent above the Kyoto-mandated level, for instance.
Easterbrook's optimism comes from U.S. experience in reducing ordinary air pollution during the past 30 years."Today, any make or model new car purchased in the United States emits about one percent the amount of smog-forming compounds per mile as a car of 1970, and the cost of the anti-smog technology is less than $100 per vehicle." Remember acid rain? After Congress enacted an emissions permit trading plan in 1991, the output of harmful sulfur compounds dropped by more than a third, and "Appalachian forests are currently in their best health since Europeans first laid eyes on them," The reductions cost only $200 per ton of emissions cut, not the $2,000 originally projected.
The lesson: "Cream a profit incentive for greenhouse gas reduction, and human ingenuity will rapidly be applied to the problem." That means eschewing detailed government regulation and creating "a market-based system of auctioned or traded greenhouse gas permits." Major emitters of gases such as carbon dioxide would be issued permits allowing them to release certain quantifies of the gases. If they produced less, they would be entitled to sell leftover permits to producers who emitted more than their quota. Everybody would have a strong financial incentive to reduce emissions.
That would speed the adoption of new technologies, from the familiar wind and solar power alternatives to the less known. General Electric, for example, has developed coal-fired power plants that emit no greenhouse gases. More important, such incentives would unleash the human power of invention, with results we can't even imagine now.
What about the developing world, with its soaring output of greenhouse gases? In a global system that gave credits for cutting emissions in places such as China, where old and antiquated technologies could be quickly updated, the gains could be huge.
The United States led the world in finding ways to tame smog and acid rain, Easterbrook declares, "and we should be first to overcome global warming."

</file>

<file= AmE06_G19>

The same contrast of actively self-possessed experience and a more passive self-surrender also recalls the historical opposition of Aristotelian and Platonic views of pleasure. If Plato charged that our strongest pleasures (typically those of bodily sensations) imply a lack, passivity, or loss of control in the subject, Aristotle offered an account of pleasure that stressed the active, complete, and self-strengthening dimension of enjoyment.
Enjoying a game of chess is an activity that we can fully enjoy throughout the game and not only when it is over. Our enjoyment does not imply that we initially lacked something and are passively carried away by the feelings we get from playing; instead,enjoyingchesspromotesthesubject' s ability to stay focused and concentrate on the game. In attempting to defend the pleasure of aesthetic experience, I have often emphasized the Aristotelian account and stressed the activity of the subject in all sensory perception. But the Platonic view of pleasure as captivating sensations that overcome the subject and take her out of herself (ekstasis) also needs recognition. There are pleasures of self-abandonment to sensations as well as self-affirming enjoyment of activity. Intense self-absorption in an activity can also yield its own sense of self-abandonment in which one is no longer conscious of the acting self but only of the activity.
Aesthetic experience, on my view, can embrace these different moments. Enjoying a sad movie means appreciating the poignancy of the film, but it can also include appreciating our feelings of emotion that result from appreciating its poignancy, even if those turbulent sensations (perhaps even of weeping) may disturb for a moment our self-composure and our self-controlled cognitive attention to the movie. An experiential model of learning that appreciates receptivity as well as self-assertive grasping should convince us that there can be cognitive lessons learned through self-abandonment that cannot be obtained through vigilant self-control. Transformative knowledge through passionate and intensely pleasurable self-surrender is the cognitive claim of mystical fusion, but it is also suggested in our most earthy sense of coupling that forms the ancient biblical paradigm of experiential knowledge -  the carnal knowledge of sex.
Can sexual experience, then, provide aesthetic experience? "No," is the standard reply of analyticaesthetics.Despiteourculture' sincreasing interest and gains in sexual freedom, expression, and creativity, Anglo-American philosophers typically presume that aesthetic experience should be sharply distinguished from experiences of sex (and drugs). Gary Iseminger, for example, in his lucid and well-informed article for the Oxford Companion to Aesthetics, argues that one of four key desiderata for a theory of aesthetic experience is a definition that will clearly distinguish this experience from sexual experience and drug-induced experience, thus ensuring that also the notion of aesthetic pleasure "does not apply to the pleasures of sex and drugs." Iseminger's concernechoesRogerScruton' sanxietythat aesthetic experience not be reduced to emotional intoxication characteristic of "certain drugs" and "pornography." Similarly, Monroe Beardsley, when faced with the criticism that his earlier definitions of aesthetic experience could logically include sexual experience, felt compelled once again to revise his theory so as to affirm their difference rather than recognizing that sex can be aesthetic. Moreover, these stark rejections of aesthetic sexuality never seem to be based on substantive analyses or detailed argumentation about the nature of erotic experience.
Why should this worry about sex and drugs be so prominently insistent? Are we so prone to grant them undeserved aesthetic status, and what great harm would arise from recognizing that some erotic or drug-induced experience could be aesthetic? Why is there no similarly urgent worry about distinguishing aesthetic experience from experiences of bird watching, wine tasting, sun bathing, window shopping, flânerie, or of observing sports such as diving, figure skating, or gymnastics? The answer, I believe, is a combination of old prejudices and repressive fears that have recently been intensified by new cultural developments and demons. Without trying here to define sexual experience, we can at least note that it seems structurally different from most drug-induced experience in ways that approximate the experience of art. While one's sexual partner is the intentional object that structures one's experience of sex, the pill one takes to initiate a drug experience does not typically form the object of that experience (though the joint that one rolls and smokes may sometimes form part of it).
The contemporary academic presumption that sexual experience should be excluded from the realm of aesthetic experience has deep historical roots in enduring platonistic and religious sentiments that underlie much of the idealism of modern aesthetics. Defining aesthetic pleasure as disinterested and intellectual in order to distinguish it sharply from the agreeable sensations of sensual experience and the satisfactions of appetite, Immanuel Kant could build on Shaftesbury's earlier insistence on the disinterested contemplation of beauty as explicitly contrasted to sexual desire. Still earlier, in the founding text that gave aesthetics its disciplinary name, Alexander Baumgarten warns against sex as something that corrupts aesthetic sensibility. As Kant and Baumgarten express the German pietism of their times, so Shaftesbury was deeply influenced by neoplatonist idealism that traditionally disdained and feared the body. If Nietzsche is right that the dramatic arts emerged from the sexually charged Dionysian rituals, then aesthetic experience has a distinctly erotic past and perhaps some residual sexual energies that might be uncomfortable to acknowledge in trying to develop aesthetics into a rigorous, rationalistic philosophical form of knowledge. If Herbert Marcuse is right that "the erotic quality of the Beautiful" challenges "the prevailing reality principle of domination" with the emancipatory power of the pleasure principle, then philosophers devoted to the hegemony of established cultural realities should have further reason to be wary of accepting the erotic within the aesthetic domain.
Because aesthetics is considered a rather soft discipline that has trouble matching the scientific rigor and explanatory power of other academic fields (including other fields of philosophy), it is understandable that contemporary aestheticians would be especially worried about the challenges to aesthetic rationality that sex and drugs seem to introduce. In Anglo-American theory, the need to exclude sex and drugs from the aesthetic domain may have been rendered even more pressing by the fact that extremely influential French philosophers, such as Georges Bataille and Michel Foucault, have emphasized radical practices of sex and drugs as means of achieving limit experiences whose overwhelming aesthetic powers are alleged to challenge the boundaries of conventional thinking, thus transforming our philosophical perspective and even our very sense of self (which is both a product and a reproducer of established social institutions, practices, and ideologies).
Of course, the aesthetic neglect of sex is not primarilythefaultoftoday' sphilosophers, whose thinking largely reflects the entrenched presuppositions of our intellectual heritage and our enduring cultural traditions. Western modernity, as Foucault argues, has tended to treat sex on a distinctly medical rather than aesthetic model, developing a massive scientia sexualis but still very little in the way of the elaborate ars erotica that is found in Asian culture. One contemporary expression of this bias is the mammoth wave of incessantly advertised drugs for improving sex in terms of chemically induced physical instrumentalities (for example, longer and harder erections and better lubrication), while comparatively nothing is offered to improve sexual experience through greater erotic artistry and heightened aesthetic sensibility. Foucault's advocacy of consensual S/M and homosexual eroticism expresses his aim of expanding the creative palette of sexual options, which - because sexuality forms a central part of one's identity - would in turn expand our possible modes of aesthetic self-fashioning in what he calls "the aesthetics of existence."W eneednotshareFoucault' s specific preferences to appreciate his point about the aesthetic dimension of erotics.
The genealogy of aesthetics' neglect of sex deserves much more attention; so does the analysis of what constitutes sexual or erotic experience. However, given our ordinary understanding of the erotic, and using our extended analysis of the concept of aesthetic experience, we can conclude with a tentative assessment of whether sex can provide such experience. In one sense of this ambiguous question, that of the imaginative contemplation of sex, there seems excellent reason to answer affirmatively because the visual and verbal representations of erotic desire and activity clearly form an important part of many artworks that move us aesthetically rather than pornographically or voyeuristically. In such works, the representation of sexuality is depicted, structured, and deployed in ways governed by certain distinctively formal aims or aesthetic criteria and meanings. We can likewise imagine live or filmed erotic theatre that would be scripted and directed toward realizing such formal or aesthetic qualities, even if the vast majority of such sexual dramatizations ignore or subordinate such aims to the pursuit of primarily prurient intentions, and even if it may be very difficult for most observers to take the detached, distanced, disinterested attitude to watching sex that some theorists demand of aesthetic experience. The demand for disinterested, distanced detachment (a vague and controversial demand that pragmatist and Nietzschean aesthetics contests) implies that the hardest case to make for sexual experience as aesthetic would be our actual engagement in erotic activity rather than our imaginatively perceiving it done by others. But rather than entangling ourselves in polemics about distance, let us consider consensual sexual experience in terms of the features we identified as central to the more dominant conceptions of aesthetic experience.
Sex can certainly be pursued, enjoyed, and highly valued for its own sake rather than for its role in producing children, in acquiring material or social gains, or in forging psychological bonds of intimacy. (In this sense of being appreciated for itself rather than for its instrumentality in serving other interests or ulterior motives, sex could even be said to involve disinterested, albeit desiring, enjoyment.) Sex can be enjoyed both in terms of its Aristotelian sense of fulfilling, absorbing, undistracted activity and in terms of the attendant pleasurable sensations it gives; it powerfully displays the phenomenological dimension of being subjectively savored but also intentionally directed at an object (typically another human subject) that structures the experience, shapes its quality, and gives it important dimensions of meaning commensurate with the properties and significance of that object. A cognitive experience providing knowledge of one's own body and mind and also those of one's sexual partners, the sexual act typically displays a distinctive unity both of coherence and completion, a sense of something developing consistently and powerfully toward a fulfilling consummation. It also stands out distinctively from the flow of ordinary hum-drum experience. Sexual experience involves a wide range of affect, some of which is unrivalled in its intensity, and it displays both moments of active self-assertive grasping and self-surrendering absorption.
Can sexual experience, then, be aesthetic? It seems to capture all the key elements emphasized by the major conceptions of aesthetic experience. In order to exclude sex from aesthetic experience, Isemingerarguesthat"sexualpartners ... are not works of art" and that "the incorporation of thought into the imaginative experience" also "distinguishesaestheticexperiencefrom sexual experience." These arguments, however, wrongly presume that only works of art can form the object of aesthetic experience and that our sexual experience does not involve imaginative thought and discriminating sensibility. If the most blind and primitive sexual encounters require no cognitive sensitivity (which is also absent in blind encounters with artworks), good love making calls for an imaginative, perceptive "thinking desire."
Of course, whether we allow sexual experience to count as aesthetic experience depends ultimately on the conceptions of aesthetic experience and sexual experience we adopt. But I am convinced that unless we limit aesthetic experience narrowly to the experience of artworks and conversely confine sexual experience to unimaginative, thoughtlessly mechanical, and insensitive copulation, we should clearly recognize that sexual experience can be aesthetic, even though current academic doxa and much traditional aesthetic dogma insistently deny it. Such a conclusion has more than theoretical consequences. It can inspire us to greater aesthetic appreciation of our sexual experience and, consequently, to more artistic and aesthetically rewarding performance in our erotic behavior, which surely forms one important dimension of the art of living.

</file>

<file= AmE06_G20>

The study of racial perceptions has developed into one of the most fruitful
areas of social science research on racial and ethnic attitudes. Among other
things, research on stereotypical perceptions of various racial and ethnic
groups has documented their content (Devine and Elliott 1995; Schuman et al.
1997; Sniderman and Carmines 1997), their origins (Fiske 1998), and their
impact on information processing (for reviews see Blair 2001; and Fiske
1998). More recently, researchers have also begun to take an interest in the
relationship between the positive and negative dimensions of whites' stereotypical
perceptions of blacks. Although positive and negative stereotypical
perceptions are perhaps most easily thought of as "bipolar" or "reciprocally
related" - with the acceptance of positive perceptions implying the rejection
of negative perceptions and vice versa - research differs as to whether this is always the case (Cacioppo and Berntson 1994; Levine, Carmines, and
Sniderman 1999). In many cases, whites appear to endorse both positive and
negative perceptions of blacks at the same time, suggesting a pattern of
ambivalence (Katz and Hass 1988). The purpose of the present study is to
examine the hypothesis that these deviations from bipolarity in the organization
of whites' perceptions of blacks may vary as a function of ideology, with
deviations from bipolarity being more likely as one moves to the political
right.
The Structure of Whites' Racial Perceptions
In general, what does research on racial and ethnic attitudes have to say
about the affective structure of whites' stereotypical perceptions of blacks?
Like research in a number of other attitude domains, research on stereotypes
typically assumes that stereotypical perceptions can be conceptualized
in terms of a single bipolar affective dimension, with positive
perceptions (e.g., blacks are hardworking) at one end and negative perceptions
(e.g., blacks are lazy) at the other (see Schuman et al. 1997; see also
Cacioppo and Berntson 1994; Green and Citrin 1994). As noted earlier, this
assumption implies that the endorsement of positive and negative perceptions
should be reciprocally related, with the acceptance of positive stereotypical
perceptions necessarily leading to the rejection of negative ones. In
many ways, this conceptual assumption is a product of the instruments typically
used to measure racial attitudes and perceptions. Most of these
instruments have taken the form of Likert scales or semantic-differential
items, both of which force the respondent to indicate their attitudes or perceptions
on a single positive-versus-negative dimension (see Schuman
et al. 1997). While these bipolar measures have provided numerous benefits
in terms of economy and simplicity, their use may have discouraged
researchers from considering the possibility that positive and negative stereotypical
perceptions of blacks may not always be reciprocally related: in
and of themselves, measures that force respondents to make an either-or
choice between the endorsement of positive or negative perceptions minimize
attention to situations where the two may coexist (Cacioppo and Berntson
1994; Cacioppo, Gardner, and Berntson 1999; Levine, Carmines, and
Sniderman 1999).
Despite these assumptions, a growing body of work suggests that the organization
of positive and negative racial perceptions may frequently deviate
from a pattern of strict bipolarity. At the most basic level, studies have shown
that positive and negative responses to blacks are both empirically distinguishable
and statistically independent of one another. For example, in a study
of over 4,000 high school students, Patchen, Hofmann, and Davidson (1976)
found that positive and negative attitudes toward blacks and whites fell on separate dimensions in a factor analysis and that these dimensions were
relatively orthogonal to one another. Similarly, Katz and Hass and their colleagues
(Hass et al. 1992; Katz and Hass 1988) found that measures of "pro-black"
and "anti-black" attitudes tend to load on different factors, with the
correlation between the measures again being minimal. For a sizable number
of the whites studied by the Katz and Hass group, this deviation from bipolarity
manifested itself as racial "ambivalence," or a tendency to have both positive
and negative attitudes toward blacks at the same time (see especially Katz
and Hass 1988).
At a somewhat deeper level, studies have also suggested that positive and
negative responses toward blacks and other racial outgroups may have different
antecedents. In this vein, Patchen and colleagues (1977) found that positive
behaviors toward blacks were best predicted by prior opportunities for
racial contact, while negative behaviors were best predicted by personal
aggressiveness and the racial attitudes of one's family and peers. From a
slightly different perspective, both Lipset and Schneider (1978) and Katz,
Wackenhut, and Hass (1986) have argued that positive and negative attitudes
toward blacks may have different antecedents, with positive attitudes being
rooted in humanitarianism and negative attitudes being rooted in individualism.
According to this account, humanitarian concern for disadvantaged social
groups leads to positive affect in the form of sympathetic perceptions, while
an individualistic concern for self-reliance and other tenets of the Protestant
ethic leads to negative affect in the form of disapproval. Several studies have
now provided evidence for this account (e.g., Hass et al. 1992; Katz and Hass
1988).
Interestingly, these sets of results dovetail nicely with the conclusions of a
broader line of theory and research in the psychological literature on affect,
which increasingly points toward the existence of distinguishable positive and
negative evaluative processes (Cacioppo and Berntson 1994; Cacioppo, Gardner,
and Berntson 1999). More precisely, this line of work suggests that separate
"channels" may be responsible for positive and negative responses to
various stimuli, and that these two channels may not always operate in a bipolar
or reciprocal fashion. According to this "bivariate" model, positive and
negative evaluative processes may have evolved in response to separate prerogatives
related to approach and avoidance: positive affect may encourage
the exploration of novel objects and the pursuit of survival-enhancing goals,
while negative affect may alert the individual to the presence of dangers to be
avoided (Cacioppo, Gardner, and Berntson 1999; Gray 1991; see also Marcus, Neuman, and MacKuen 2000). Additional evidence suggests that positive and
negative evaluative processes may have different neuropsychological substrates,
with positive and negative stimuli leading to higher levels of activation
in different neural circuits (see Davidson 1993; and Gray 1991; for a
review see Cacioppo, Gardner, and Berntson 1999). As such, deviations from
bipolarity in the affective structure of whites' racial perceptions may be part
of a more general tendency in the appraisal of social stimuli.
But Whose Racial Perceptions Deviate from Affective
Bipolarity? The Role of Ideology
While a variety of studies suggest that whites' stereotypical perceptions of
blacks may not always be bipolar or reciprocally related, researchers have
devoted less attention to question of whose racial perceptions are more likely
to deviate from bipolarity. In this vein, studies have repeatedly shown that
there are reliable individual differences in the degree to which whites' racial
attitudes actually do so. For example, Katz and Hass and their colleagues
(Hass et al. 1992) and Monteith (1996) have found that individuals differ in
the extent to which they endorse both positive and negative opinions of
blacks. More generally, Cacioppo, Gardner, and Berntson (1999) have argued
that a two-channel affective system may permit a variety of overall response
patterns, depending on the circumstances: some situations may encourage a
bipolar response pattern, while others may lead to a shift away from it, resulting
in phenomena like ambivalence.
So, given the potential for variability in the relationship between positive
and negative racial perceptions, how might we explain individual differences
in the structure of this relationship? One factor that may be relevant is ideology.
While this variable has not received a great deal of attention in the literature
on the affective structure of whites' racial perceptions, studies have
more generally suggested that ideology may intersect with racial attitudes in
a number of ways (Sidanius, Singh, Hetts, and Federico 2000; see also Sniderman
and Carmines 1997; and Sniderman, Crosby, and Howell 2000). Interestingly,
one of the chief conclusions of this broader line of research is that political
conservatism is reliably associated with more negative perceptions of African-
Americans (Federico and Sidanius 2002a, 2002b; Sidanius, Pratto, and Bobo
1996; Sidanius et al. 2000). While this finding appears to be relatively robust
(Federico and Sidanius 2002b), there are a number of reasons to suspect that
this emphasis on the relationship between conservatism and negative perceptions
of blacks may actually obscure a more subtle relationship between conservatism
and deviations from affective bipolarity that result in conflicting
perceptions of blacks. Among other things, this tendency may have something
to do with the racial-attitude measures used in most studies of the relationship
between ideology and racial perceptions: almost all of these measures have been bipolar in nature, forcing respondents to express either a positive or a
negative attitude toward blacks (e.g., Federico and Sidanius 2002a, 2002b;
Sidanius, Pratto, and Bobo 1996). As noted above, measures of this sort leave
little or no room for the assessment of deviations from bipolarity.
Assuming that this is true, why might the probability of having both positive
and negative perceptions of blacks at the same time increase as one moves
to the political right? Importantly, existing work on racial ambivalence and
other deviations from affective bipolarity in the racial domain suggests that
conflicting perceptions of blacks themselves may stem from deeper forms of
attitudinal conflict. As noted earlier, both Lipset and Schneider (1978) and
Katz, Wackenhut, and Hass (1986) argue that positive and negative attitudes
toward blacks may have different sources - i.e., humanitarianism and individualism,
respectively. In turn, this suggests that individuals who tend to
endorse both humanitarian and individualistic sentiments may be more conflicted
about blacks themselves: while humanitarian concerns lead them to
endorse positive perceptions of blacks, individualistic concerns lead them to
endorse negative perceptions of blacks as well (Hass et al. 1992; Katz and
Hass 1988).
In this vein, there are a number of reasons to believe that conservatives may
be more likely to approach racial matters with this critical combination of both
humanitarian and individualistic concerns. These reasons - and the implication
that they may result in more value conflict on the right - have received
some attention in race and politics literature (Sears 1988; Sears et al. 2000;
Sniderman and Carmines 1997). On one hand, the success of the civil rights
movement has made basic humanitarian concern for blacks a consensual political
norm: for the most part, both liberals and conservatives agree that unequal
treatment is a violation of basic liberal-democratic values central to American
life (McClosky and Zaller 1984; Sniderman and Carmines 1997; Sniderman
and Piazza 1993), although some studies reveal slight ideological differences
in this regard (Sidanius, Pratto, and Bobo 1996). As such, there is little reason
to believe that conservatives should be much less bothered than anyone else
by the inhumane treatment of minorities. On the other hand, public opinion
research clearly suggests that conservatives are more troubled than liberals or
moderates by the perception that African-Americans may not be doing enough
to help themselves and by black demands for what they perceive to be "special"
treatment (Sears 1988; Sniderman and Carmines 1997). So, individualistic
concerns do seem to be in stronger evidence on the right.
Taken together, these two considerations suggest that the chronic coactivation
of humanitarian and individualistic concerns needed for the emergence of
racial ambivalence may increase as one moves to the political right, leading
conservatives' perceptions of blacks to deviate more strongly from affective
bipolarity. In operational terms, this hypothesis leads to a number of specific
predictions. First of all, political conservatism should be positively associated
with various measures of the degree to which respondents' racial perceptions deviate from affective bipolarity. Second, the relationship between conservatism
and the degree to which respondents' perceptions deviate from bipolarity
should be mediated by a tendency to endorse both humanitarian and individualistic
concerns at the same time.
Although prior work thus suggests that conflict between humanitarian and
individualistic concerns is likely to mediate the relationship between conservatism
and deviations from affective bipolarity in whites' racial perceptions, it
is somewhat less clear whether conflict between these two sets of concerns
will be most influential at a general level or a specifically racial level.

</file>

<file= AmE06_G21>

They risked being killed themselves, for wearing the enemy's colors, but the practice continued throughout the war. (In Russia a decade ago I heard stories of Red Army troops donning the uniforms of slain Germans during World War II to keep from freezing in the winter campaign, and then being shot as their own line advanced.)
Training and tactics contributed to the accidental killings. Initially the officers in both armies had been trained at West Point and brought similar tactics into combat. Infantry were formed in long lines and marched directly toward the enemy, firing away. If the front line knelt down before the order to fire, they could be spared. If not, infantrymen were sometimes shot in the back by their own troops.
The line of infantry was workable in the open terrain of the Mexican War, hut in the Civil War much of the fighting was in hill-and-ravine country, where the lines could not hold, and the Confederate cavalry could outride and outmaneuver the less experienced Union horsemen. In woods like the Wilderness the cavalry dismounted and fought as infantry, while others tried to lead the horses to safety. As you would expect, most Union casualties to friendly fire occurred in open terrain like Manassas, while most Confederate losses, like Jackson's death, resulted from fighting in woodlands, where vision was poor and superior horsemanship no longer mattered.
At Manassas, as elsewhere, communication was poor. Artillery fire, when called for, could hardly he controlled, and men were maimed or killed while fighting in front of their own gunneries. Training, tactics, vision, execution - soldiers on both sides learned quickly that mistakes in the field were deadly. Here at Manassas, in that first conflict, a regiment of what would become Jackson's Stonewall Brigade wore neither the Confederate grey that Lee favored, nor the butternut uniform, hut a solid blue. When Union forces mistook them for their own and, holding fire, let them advance, the Virginians blasted away with a barrage of musket-fire, and Jackson secured the hill that made his name. Though it was not friendly fire, it was a deadly misunderstanding that occurred on other battlefields as well, from those first days of the war to the last.
6. The Angel of the Battlefield.
At forty, while she was a clerk in the Patent Office, she began dressing the wounds of Union soldiers. Clara Barton was a native of Massachusetts, living in Washington, D.C., and these troops were from her home state. On their way south to combat duty in the first days of the Civil War, they were attacked by secessionists while passing through Baltimore - civilians hurled rocks and bricks at them, and when they fell to the
Street they were beaten. Finally arriving in the capital, they lay on the floor of the train depot, bruised and bleeding. She learned of the assault while at work - from two gloating coworkers who sympathized with the Rebels - and came at once to aid the victims. She cleansed wounds; she dressed them with handkerchiefs and wrapped them in towels which she'd gathered on her way. She brought them cups of water or coffee.
You might wonder, as I do, if she surprised herself. She was almost pathologically timid, often too shy to speak, yet she talked with these wounded men in a melodious voice. She had no medical training, but by pleading and browbeating she gathered essential supplies so that wounds were cleansed and sewn.
When the wounded from the first battle of Bull Run were brought from Manassas to a medical station in Washington, again she volunteered to nurse them. In the solitude of her life she'd already suffered nervous breakdowns, but in treating others she grew bold for the moment. Tender and determined, she nursed men with gaping wounds, cleansing them, providing meals of bread and fresh water, or crackers mashed into small jars of wine; asking their names; promising to write to their families; now and then consenting to a goodnight kiss from a man who mistook her for his wife or mother; closing the lids of a man's eyes after hearing his last words. It wasn't enough.
By the time the wounded were brought to the medical centers hastily established in Washington, or at the railroad station nearest to the battlefield, many had been without food for several days and were in too much pain to sleep. They arrived in mule-drawn carts or wagons traveling over rutted roads - the mules were considered merciful because they moved more slowly than horses, reducing the awful jostling. Survivors of Second Bull Run recalled ceaseless screaming as the wounded were lifted off the grass, here at Manassas, where limbs and skulls were strewn underfoot. While many were screaming in agony, others were cast into a numb silence that might take years to overcome.
Small, prim, painfully shy. Barton nevertheless berated government officials until they relented and let her travel to the battlefields with her supplies. The black man driving the stocked wagon was a quiet companion on these journeys. Soon after the wagon rolled past the sentries posted at the outskirts of the city, they entered the green countryside. The small woman seated beside him had begun singing to herself. For no reason but that her spirits were rising, she sang "Polly Wolly Doodle," a tune she'd heard in a theater in the capital just before the war began. When she heard her own voice, like a faint echo under the sun-struck trees, she stopped, afraid she might attract attention. "Clara," she said. "No more of that!"
She saw herself as a pale brown-haired woman accompanied by a black driver, and that might give cause for scandal. A risk she had to take. She was warmly welcomed by the medical corps that treated the maimed men carried from the field at Slaughter Mountain and, in the fading heat of mid-September at Antietam, where Lee's troops fought furiously, then withdrew.
Called "the angel of the battlefield," she brought bread, coffee, jams and jellies, wine, salt, sugar, towels, and lanterns so the surgeon could operate on the wounded after nightfall. The field hospital was not the familiar tobacco shed that she expected, but an abandoned bam with a thirty-foot high roof, cattle stalls, and a straw-covered floor soon soaked with the blood of men struck down by rifle and artillery fire. The rafters rose in darkness. Her lanterns, hung from the lower crossbeams, cast shadows across the wounded lying from the front of the bam to the back. All night she attended to them, crouching from one moaning figure to another in her billowing black dress, while they waited their turn to be brought over to the farmhouse. The old house had been ventilated by gunfire from both armies, and there the surgeon, too, labored by the light of Barton's lanterns.
Those who knew Clara Barton found her warm, gentle, kind, and modest. But anxiety stifled her, especially when she was inactive. When she was denied access to the wounded, when she could not obtain a pass to reach the front, she sank into depression. When she could come directly to the battlefield, as she did at Antietam, she could see that her work was essential, and she hated, with a deep-burning passion, the warfare that wasted so many lives.
Midway through the war the old-fashioned musket had given way to the more powerful and accurate Springfield rifle, but the infantry still fought in close quarters; cavalry carried the Spencer carbine, a short-barrel repeating rifle, but as they, too, usually fought on foot, firing at close range, gunshot wounds were horrendous. Victims of bayonet attacks frequently died on the field, before Barton or anyone else could treat them.
At Fredericksburg, Burnside ordered pontoon bridges strung across the Rappahannock to march his troops against the Confederates on the high ground above the town. The two armies exchanged thundering artillery fire. Rebel cannons shelled the ground around the house where Barton was quartered. The bluecoats advanced, raked by gunfire. Her skirt torn by a shell as she crossed the river. Barton closely followed the men. Through the cold morning they fought to reach Fredericksburg, but it had been abandoned except for Rebel infantry and sharpshooters - in hand-to-hand fighting it was reduced to a ghost town. The lone woman there, she made her way among blasted buildings to nurse mutilated men who lay among severed body parts and the stench of their blood.
Now, throughout the chilling afternoon, Burnside and his generals ordered their troops to cross a "killing field," an open plain on the approach to Marye's Heights, above the forsaken town. From the superior position of the heights, Rebel gunfire shredded the Union lines as they attempted to advance. Still they came, wave after wave, and were gunned down, until dusk covered the ground. Altogether twelve thousand Union soldiers were killed or wounded in that one day's fighting, and nothing was gained from the slaughter but the empty shell of a town. That night Clara Barton urged men to take apart the chimney from a ruined house and heat the bricks over a fire so they could be placed among the wounded to keep them warm, until the surgeons arrived to operate in the cold light of morning. You think of those men begging her for water or whiskey; for warm bread; morphine or chloroform; for a kind word or touch; or just to look at them tenderly And you ask yourself, In whose hands will you leave your life?
Later she would work in combat conditions at Battery Wagner, near the fighting in the Wilderness, and in the grinding sieges of Petersburg and Richmond. At the conclusion of the Civil War she traveled to the notorious Andersonville stockade in Georgia. Watched by armed guards. Union prisoners attempted to survive in tattered tents and holes dug into the earth. More than twelve thousand perished from atrocities, starvation, and disease. She helped to identify those who had been carted away to a common graveyard. For the next four years she traced the dead who'd been left on battlefields, buried in unmarked graves, or "disappeared." Finding, in all, another twenty thousand victims of the war, she wrote letters to their families wherever they might be.
Soon she was in Europe, assisting at hospitals that received the wounded from the Franco-Prussian War. Returning to the United States, she founded the American Red Cross - a four-year struggle - then, as you know, she served as its first president. Later she would aid survivors of the Armenian massacre at the hands of the Turks who killed men, women, and children with guns, knives, and swords, and burned their homes.
In the first year of the twentieth century the world s most devastating hurricane struck Galveston, Texas. Boats at anchor in the Gulf of Mexico were swamped and sunk by the incoming tidal surge. When the huge breakers hit the beach the clam shacks, lunchrooms, beer halls, and souvenir shops were inundated. The surf tore apart the big bathhouses and smashed its way into town. Wailing winds flattened fences and then uprooted trees and hurled them against homes. Shutters were flicked from windows and the exposed panes shattered. Roofs, pounded by torrents of rain, were blown away. Downtown, walls collapsed into the rising floodwaters. Rain as hard as hail pounded the rubble.
Clara Barton had arrived to treat orphaned infants, but she found that the youngest were among the first to die. As the water receded the scent of decay grew stronger in the silent streets, where the air was thick with mosquitoes. Daily she dispensed disinfectants to the adults and distributed clothing to the surviving children. After dark, in a city without electric power, she managed her tasks by lantern light, as she had done when nursing the wounded brought from the battlefield of Manassas or in the deep-shadowed barn near Antietam Creek. As always she felt both repressed and determined - but for joyful moments when she forgot all propriety and sang to herself. She was seventy-eight, weary, but still working.

</file>

<file= AmE06_G22>

Although I shall not belabor the point, I think it is clear that each
pattern can be instanced in numerous other ways. For example, in addition
to bad reasoning and insensitivity to morally relevant considerations,
the factors that prevent agents from recognizing that they are
acting wrongly can include their inability to envision alternative courses
of action and the fact that their conceptual schemes are too impoverished
to support the relevant classifications; in addition to fear and
panic, the emotions that cloud people's judgment can include anxiety,
depression, and exhilaration. I also think it is clear that the different
patterns can themselves interact - that, for example, an unwilled lapse
in attention may itself be what leads someone to judge poorly or to fail
to recognize a morally relevant consideration. If all of this does not
show that clear-eyed decisions to act wrongly are actually rare, it does
at least suggest that the proportion of unwitting to witting instances of
wrongdoing within the domain of apparently responsible action is much
higher than it initially appears.
IV
But does it really follow that we must reject either the thesis that responsibility
presupposes control or the view that the relevant agents are
responsible for what they do? Can't we somehow square the fact that
none of the agents in our examples are aware that their acts or omissions
are wrong with the intuition that each one exercises enough control
over his act to qualify as responsible for it? In the remainder of this
article, I will examine two possible strategies for achieving this reconciliation:
first, to relocate each agent's knowing wrong choice to some
earlier point in his history, and, second, to deny that the form of control
that is relevant to responsibility requires that one be aware that one is
acting wrongly.
The first suggestion, that what makes an agent responsible for an unwitting wrongful choice is always some previous wrongful choice that
was not unwitting, is already familiar. We encountered a version of it
when we asked whether Alessandra had chosen to allow herself to be
distracted, whether Julian had chosen to daydream, and whether Wren
had chosen to let herself fall asleep. In this initial version, the suggestion
was found not to be credible. However, even if we cannot locate the
fateful choice at the moment immediately before the agent becomes
incapable of recognizing his act or omission as wrong, we may still be
able to locate it at some yet earlier moment.
Interestingly, proposals of this sort can be extracted from two quite
different bodies of literature. One, predictably, is the literature on culpable
ignorance. It is often said that a necessary (though not a sufficient)
condition for culpability for an act that one does not recognize as wrong
is the prior wrongful performance of what Holly Smith has called a
"benighting act" - that is, an act in which the agent "fails to improve
(or positively impairs) his cognitive position" in a way that creates a risk
of precisely the type of wrongdoing that later occurs.7 Taking our cue
from this, we might suppose that the wrongful choices that render the
agents in our examples responsible consist precisely of such benighting
acts. The other body of literature that might be adapted to provide a
way of relocating the moment of knowing wrongful choice is the literature
on character formation. Inspired by Aristotle, many philosophers
have pointed out that we are at least to some extent able to shape
our characters - that, among other things, we become good by practicing
virtue and avoiding vice, bad by doing the reverse.8 This suggests
that the wrongful choices that render our agents responsible may be
those through which they solidified the habits that subsequently prevented
them from realizing that what they were doing was wrong.
Because there are always innumerable past acts and omissions but
for which a wrongdoer would not have failed to realize that he was not
acting as he should, each of these proposals has some initial credibility.
However, problems emerge as soon as we try to flesh the proposals out.
One obvious problem is that in the majority of our nine examples, the
agent's lack of awareness that he is acting wrongly simply does not
appear to be traceable to any prior wrongful act or omission. A further
problem is that, even where there has been previous wrongdoing, the
agent's responsibility does not appear to depend on his previously having known that he was acting wrongly. For ease of exposition, I will
develop these objections first as they pertain to wrongful benighting
acts and then as they pertain to wrongful failures to develop good habits
and traits.
To see that the majority of our cases involve no previous wrongful
benighting acts, we need only remind ourselves of how unpredictable
many of the relevant situations are. For example, when Alessandra arrives
at the school, the dispute that she encounters is not one that she
could have anticipated. Because she has no reason to expect to be
distracted, she also has no reason to take precautions against being
distracted. Thus, on its most natural reconstruction, there is no point
in Hot Dog at which Alessandra has negligently failed to do something
that would have prevented her from forgetting Sheba. Nor, similarly,
does the most natural reconstruction of Jackknife involve any wrongful
benighting act on Father Poteet's part, for, because he had no reason
to mistrust his judgment, he also had no reason to take precautions
against its failing. And, although I shall not bother to argue the point,
I think we would be just as hard-pressed to attribute wrongful benighting
acts to Julian in On the Rocks, to Wren in Caught off Guard, or to amerika
in Bad Weather.9
The other four examples are different. It is clear enough that Joliet
should have investigated before shooting the intruder and that Scout
should have tried to find out whether babies can tolerate alcohol. It
may also be true that Ryland should have stopped to think before telling
her anecdote and that Sylvain should have reflected before agreeing to
allow his student to earn extra credit. Still, even if all four unwitting
wrong acts can be traced to previous wrongful benighting acts, it hardly
follows that any of the agents must have recognized that the relevant
previous act was either benighting or wrongful. Given Joliet's panic, it
seems unlikely that she even thought of investigating the identity of the
intruder, much less realized that she was acting wrongly by not doing so. Nevertheless, even if she never was aware that she was not acting as
she should, she remains responsible for shooting her son. Mutatis mutandis,
the same is true of Scout in Colicky Baby, of Ryland in Bad Joke,
and of Sylvain in Bad Policy. Thus, even if we assume that each agent
did previously perform a wrongful benighting act, the four cases will
remain counterexamples to the claim that agents are only responsible
for their unwitting wrong acts if those acts can be traced to previous
benighting acts which in their turn were witting as well as wrongful.
So far, I have argued only that we cannot accommodate our intuitions
about the nine cases by saying that what the agents are really
responsible for is their earlier wrongful benighting acts. But neither,
similarly, can we accommodate those intuitions by saying that what the
agents are really responsible for is their earlier wrongful failures to
cultivate habits or traits that subsequently would have prevented them
from acting wrongly. This suggestion, too, fails partly because most of
our cases are best interpreted as involving no such failures and partly
because even the remaining cases do not compel us to assume that the
failures were witting.
To see that the majority of our cases involve no previous wrongful
failures to cultivate good habits and traits, we must note, first, that agents
are at best obligated to prevent the development of habits and traits
that are markedly worse than normal - that they do not act wrongly by
not trying to become moral saints. This is significant because, in the
majority of our examples, the relevant wrongful acts are not best understood
as stemming from habits or traits that are markedly worse than
normal. There is no particular reason to suppose that Alessandra, Wren,
and Julian are any more irresponsible than the average person or that
Joliet and Father Poteet are unusually indifferent to the safety of others.
Because we need not suppose that any of these agents has been remiss
in not developing his character, we draw a blank when we look for
wrongfully forgone opportunities for self-improvement in which to locate
their responsibility for their later wrong acts. Should Alessandra
have been taking Gingko Biloba to improve her memory? Was Father
Poteet remiss in not sharpening his reflexes on video games? Should
Joliet have been on Paxil?
Here again, the remaining cases are different. As described, Scout
sounds unusually irresponsible, Ryland sounds unusually insensitive, Sylvain
sounds like he lacks a basic sense of fairness, and amerika sounds
like he has lost his moral compass. Hence, in Colicky Baby, Bad Joke, Bad
Policy, and Bad Weather, there is at least theoretical room for the claim
that what the agent is really responsible for is wrongfully having allowed
himself to develop the vice that his unwitting wrong act manifests. Yet
even if we waive the objection that each incipient vice was itself a barrier
to the agent's recognition of the need to take steps to prevent its further development - that, for example, the very self-involvement that now
makes Ryland so insensitive is also likely to have made her unaware of
the need for sensitivity training - this strategy for relocating what the
agents are really responsible for will remain far-fetched. The basic problem
is that the relation between the way a person lives and the character
he will end up having is transparent only in retrospect. Our characters
develop slowly and by accretion, and their development is influenced
not only by the decisions we make and the situations into which we
enter but also by our innate tendencies and by the innumerable unchosen
exigencies with which life presents us. Because we lack an unobstructed
view of either our potentialities or what the future holds, we
rarely if ever make decisions with the clear understanding that they will
cause us to end up with traits or habits that are markedly worse than
normal.10 Thus, even if we grant that Ryland, Scout, Sylvain, and amerika
have been remiss in not taking steps to prevent the development of
their bad traits, it will remain implausible to suppose that their wrongful
failures to take those steps have themselves been witting.
V
The gist of the discussion so far is that agents often seem responsible
for wrong acts that they have neither knowingly chosen to perform nor
knowingly and wrongfully chosen to risk performing. Thus, if we interpret
"X's wrong act was within his control" to imply that X either (a)
chose to perform the act despite his awareness that he should not do
so or (b) knowingly and wrongfully assumed the risk of performing such
an act unwittingly, then our examples will show that we often take agents
to be responsible for wrong acts that were not within their control.
These judgments are troubling because they appear to conflict with the
widely held principle that a lack of control excuses an agent from responsibility.
This is the principle that explains why we would not hold
Alessandra responsible for abandoning Sheba if she were kidnapped or
suffered a seizure and why we would not hold Scout responsible if she
fed the baby orange juice that her sister had laced with vodka without
telling her. As these examples suggest and many others confirm, some
version of this principle is itself central to our moral thought.
How should we react to the tension between our intuitions that the
agents in our nine examples are responsible for their wrong acts despite
their lack of control and the principle that agents are responsible only
for wrong acts over which they have exercised control?

</file>

<file= AmE06_G23>

With torture now a key weapon in the war on terror, the time has come to interrogate the logic of the ticking time bomb with a six-point critique. For this scenario embodies our deepest fears and makes most of us quietly  -  unwittingly  -  complicit in the Bush Administration's recourse to torture.
Number one: In the real world, the probability that a terrorist might be captured after concealing a ticking nuclear bomb in Times Square and that his captors would somehow recognize his significance is phenomenally slender. The scenario assumes a highly improbable array of variables that runs something like this:
 -  First, FBI or CIA agents apprehend a terrorist at the precise moment between timer's first tick and bomb's burst.
 -  Second, the interrogators somehow have sufficiently detailed foreknowledge of the plot to know they must interrogate this very person and do it right now.
 -  Third, these same officers, for some unexplained reason, are missing just a few critical details that only this captive can divulge.
 -  Fourth, the biggest leap of all, these officers with just one shot to get the information that only this captive can divulge are best advised to try torture, as if beating him is the way to assure his wholehearted cooperation.
Take the case of Zacarias Moussaoui, who sat in a Minneapolis cell in the weeks before 9/11 under desultory investigation as a possible "suicide hijacker" because the FBI did not have precise foreknowledge of Al Qaeda's plot or his possible role. In pressing for a search warrant before 9/11, the bureau's Minneapolis field supervisor even warned Washington he was "trying to keep someone from taking a plane and crashing into the World Trade Center." But FBI headquarters in Washington replied there was no evidence Moussaoui was a terrorist-providing us with yet another reminder of how difficult it is to grasp the significance of even such stunningly accurate insight or intelligence in the absence of foreknowledge,
"After the event," Roberta Wohlstetter wrote in her classic study of that other great U.S. intelligence failure, Pearl Harbor, "a signal is always crystal clear; we can now see what disaster it was signaling since the disaster has occurred. But before the event, it is obscure and pregnant with conflicting meanings."
Number two: This scenario still rests on the critical, utterly unexamined assumption that torture can get useful intelligence quickly from this or any hardened terrorist.
Advocates of the ticking bomb often cite the brutal torture of Abdul Hakim Murad in Manila in 1995, which they say stopped a plot to blow up a dozen trans-Pacific aircraft and kill 4,000 innocent passengers. Except, of course, for the simple fact that Murad s torture did nothing of the sort. As The Washington Post has reported, Manila police got all their important information from Murad in the first few minutes when they seized his laptop with the entire bomb plot. All the supposed details gained from the sixty-seven days of incessant beatings, spiced by techniques like cigarettes to the genitals, were, as one Filipino officer testified in a New York court, fabrications fed to Murad by Philippine police.
Even if the terrorist begins to talk under torture, interrogators have a hard time figuring out whether he is telling the truth or not. Testing has found that professional interrogators perform within the 45 to 60 percent range in separating truth from lies  -  little better than flipping a coin. Thus, as intelligence data moves through three basic stages  -  acquisition, analysis, and action  -  the chances that good intelligence will be ignored are high.
After fifty years of fighting enemies, communist and terrorist, with torture, we now have sufficient evidence to conclude that torture of the few yields little useful information, As the ancient Roman jurist Ulpian noted 1,800 years ago, when tortured the strong will resist and the weak will say anything to end the pain.
History is replete with examples of the strong who resisted even the most savage tortures. After the July 20, 1944, bomb plot against Hitler, the Gestapo subjected Fabian von Schiabrendorff to four weeks of torture by metal spikes and beatings so severe he suffered a heart attack. But with a stoicism typical of these conspirators, he broke his silence only to give the Gestapo a few scraps of vague information when he feared involuntarily blurting out serious intelligence.
Then there are the weak, Ibn al-Shaykh al-Libi, a senior Al Qaeda leader, under torture told his captors that Iraq trained Al Qaeda in chemical and biological weapons. This raises the possibility that he, like Murad, had been tortured into giving fabricated intelligence. Colin Powell relied on this false information in his now-disavowed speech to the United Nations before the Iraq War.
As Yale legal historian John Langbein puts it, "History's most important lesson is that it has not been possible to make coercion compatible with truth,"
Proponents of torture present a false choice between tortured intelligence and no intelligence at all. There is, in fact, a well-established American alternative to torture that we might call empathetic interrogation. U.S. Marines first used this technique during World War II to extract accurate intelligence from fanatical Japanese captives on Saipan and Tinian within forty-eight hours of landing, and the FBI has practiced it with great success in the decades since. After the East Africa bombings of U.S. embassies, the bureau employed this method to gain some of our best intelligence on Al Qaeda and win U.S. court convictions of all of the accused.
One of the bureau agents who worked on that case, Dan Coleman, has since been appalled by the CIA's coercive methods after 9/11. "Have any of these guys ever tried to talk to anyone who's been deprived of his clothes?" Coleman asked. "He's going to be ashamed and humiliated and cold. He'll tell you anything you want to hear to get his clothes back. There's no value in it." By contrast, FBI reliance on due process and empathy proved effective in terror cases by building rapport with detainees.
Bush's example of Zubaydah actually supports Colemans point. FBI agents say they were getting more out of him before the CIA came in with gloves off.
"Brutalization doesn't work," Coleman concluded from his years in FBI counterterrorism. "We know that. Besides, you lose your soul."
Number three: Once we agree to torture the one terrorist with his hypothetical ticking bomb, then we admit a possibility, even an imperative, for torturing hundreds who might have ticking bombs or thousands who just might have some knowledge about those bombs. "You can't know whether a person knows where the bomb is," explains Georgetown University Law Professor David Cole, "or even if they're telling the truth. Because of this, you end up going down a slippery slope and sanctioning torture in general."
Most of those rounded up by military sweeps in Iraq and Afghanistan for imprisonment at Abu Ghraib and Guantánamo had nothing to do with terrorism. A recent analysis of the Pentagon listing of Guantánamo's 517 detainees reveals that 86 percent were arrested not by U.S. forces but by Northern Alliance and Pakistani warlords eager to collect a $5,000 bounty for every "terrorist" captured.
Ironically, though, torture of the many can produce results, albeit at a surprisingly high political price.
The CIA tortured tens of thousands in Vietnam and the French tortured hundreds of thousands in Algeria. During the Battle of Algiers in 1957, French soldiers arrested 30 percent to 40 percent of all males in the dry's Casbah and subjected most of these to what one French officer called "beatings, electric shocks, and, in particular, water torture, which was always the most dangerous technique for the prisoner." Though many resisted to the point of death, mass torture gained sufficient intelligence to break the rebel underground. The CIA's Phoenix program no doubt damaged the Viet Cong's communist infrastructure by torture-interrogation of countless South Vietnamese civilians.
So the choices are clear. Major success from limited, surgical torture is a fable, a fiction. But mass torture of thousands of suspects, some guilty, most innocent, can produce some useful intelligence.
Number four: Useful intelligence perhaps, but at what cost? The price of torture is unacceptably high because it disgraces and then undermines the country that countenances it. For the French in Algeria, for the Americans in Vietnam, and now for the Americans in Iraq, the costs have been astronomical and have outweighed any gains gathered by torture.
Official sources are nearly unanimous that the yield from the massive Phoenix program, with more than forty prisons across South Vietnam systematically torturing thousands of suspected communists, was surprisingly low. One Pentagon contract study found that, in 1970-71, only 3 percent of the Viet Cong "killed, captured, or rallied were full or probationary Party members above the district level." Not surprisingly, such a brutal pacification effort failed either to crush the Viet Cong or win the support of Vietnamese villagers, contributing to the ultimate U.S. defeat in the Vietnam War.
Similarly, the French army won the Battle of Algiers but soon lost the war for Algeria, in part because their systematic torture delegitimated the larger war effort in the eyes of most Algerians and many French. "You might say that the Battle of Algiers was won through the use of torture," observed British journalist Sir Alistair Home, "but that the war, the Algerian war, was lost."
Even the comparatively limited torture at Abu Ghraib has done incalculable damage to America's international prestige.
In short, the intelligence gains are soon overwhelmed by political costs as friends and enemies recoil in revulsion at such calculated savagery.
Indeed, the U.S. Army's current field manual, FM: Intelligence Interrogation 34-52, contains an implicit warning about these high political costs: "Revelation of use of torture by U.S. personnel," it warns, "will bring discredit upon the U.S. and its armed forces while undermining domestic and international support for the war effort."
Number five: These dismal conclusions lead to a last, uncomfortable question: If torture produces limited gains at such high political cost, why does any rational American leader condone interrogation practices "tantamount to torture"?
One answer to this question seems to lie with a prescient CIA Cold War observation about Soviet leaders in times of stress. "When feelings of insecurity develop within those holding power," reads an agency analysis of Kremlin leadership applicable to the post-9/11 White House, "they become increasingly suspicious and put great pressures upon the secret police to obtain arrests and confessions. Ac such times, police officials are inclined to condone anything which produces a speedy 'confession,' and brutality may become widespread." In sum, the powerful often turn to torture in times of crisis, not because it works but because it salves their fears and insecurities with the psychic balm of empowerment.
As we slide down the slippery slope to torture in general, we should also realize that there is a chasm at the bottom called extrajudicial execution. With the agency's multinational gulag full of dozens, even hundreds, of detainees of dwindling utility, CIA agents, active and retired, have been vocal in their complaints about the costs and inconvenience of limitless, even lifetime, incarceration for these tortured terrorists. The ideal solution to this conundrum from an agency perspective is pump and dump, as in Vietnam  -  pump the terrorists for information, and then dump the bodies. After all, the systematic French torture of thousands from the Casbah of Algiers in 1957 also entailed more than 3,000 "summary executions" as "an inseparable part" of this campaign, largely, as one French general put it, to ensure that "the machine of justice" not be "clogged with cases." For similar reasons, the CIA's Phoenix program produced, by the agency's own count, over 20,000 extrajudicial killings.
Number six: The use of torture to stop ticking bombs leads ultimately to a cruel choice  -  either legalize this brutality, à la Dershowitz and Bush, or accept that the logical corollary to state-sanctioned torture is state-sponsored murder, à la Vietnam.

</file>

<file= AmE06_G24>

An X-ray of an X-ray. Make the familiar strange is one of the great dictums of art, past Ezra Pound's plea for the new. But stranger still to come back and see what is too close for elegant commentary in what stuns, even terrifies.
A few years ago, I was lucky, happening upon a very odd article about a guy, presumably the author, Jeffery Keel, working outside all summer, maintaining filtration pipes somewhere in Wisconsin. But the piece was really about a cat. And if one X-rayed that, it was in fact about hunger. Keel's careful observations of that animal, a former house cat - "My only companion," he writes straight out, "recently abandoned to the fields. "What fascinates is Keel's fresh eye as he watches the cat quickly adapt, beginning to stare and stalk on his own, fueled by this new thing, hunger. Struck by this transformation. Keel himself begins to fast, a kind of solidarity with the animal, and he gradually grows astonished. Sounds - "the drone of a tractor" far off, the "smell of earth, wildflowers, and moist decay," all seemed wildly amplified as he grows hungrier. "It was as if Nature had turned up the volume," he writes, "exaggerated its movements and illuminated the colors of the landscape." The climax comes a week into the fast as Keel, following the cat's stare out over the pasture - not at all the first time he's tried it, always before noticing only "a tangle of vegetation." But now he sees it, how that "tuft of grass quivered against the undulating movement of the grass." A mouse, we -  via the wise and agile cat - discover, as he runs and pounces and brings back his prey. "From that moment on," Keel writes, "the fields, which had once appeared tranquil, came alive." Until, that is, he's back to solid food again, and everything returns - "subsided" is the word he uses with genuine regret - "to within the usual realm of my senses." Subsided then, the veil in place again, opaque between these worlds, human and inhuman, the known and what is seemingly unknowable, out of reach, not even an option.
Of course hunger and visions have a long very unsecret history together in virtually any culture - the Arab stories of struggles that any poorly fed desert traveler might have with jinn, an evil spirit, or St. Teresa's famous moments of hallucinatory prayer, especially during Lent, or the Tibetan ritual of chod where a young would-be fasting shaman goes to a desolate spot to await instruction. Hours of stress in whatever bodily form loom large in this context, the Eskimo's kayakangst, for instance, described by anthropologist Weston LaBarre as "coming to the hunter out alone in his kayak in a featureless sea," a "trancelike lowering of consciousness" with a "hypnotic fixing." Other near-pathological conditions, however temporary, ignited by drugs of whatever legal or illegal stripe, are known for bringing on imaginary wonders, some angelic, many decidedly not.
But this story of a pasture in Wisconsin is not really a vision in that sense, unless we include the Arctic kayaker s "hypnotic fixing" in some way. The cat, and eventually the human teller-of-the-tale, see exactly what is, what's there, howbeit weirdly enlarged and narrowed at the same time. What this small fable does - and it has that fable feel: man and cat, hunger and the hunt, world fleshed out in abrupt, super-real detail - is move us vividly into something close to what I want to call poetic time. And not dream really, closer to daydream, the poet, I suppose, pretty much the "dreamer in broad daylight" characterized by Freud in the work he did on the experience of writers, though certainly what I mean lies under the usual wistful Walter Mitty projections of love and success anyone might bring to this. For the record, the state itself is called a "hypnagogic experience" by psychologists, one of whom, Herbert Silberer, described the daydream's two parts - "drowsiness and the effort to think, the first a passive state, not subject to the will," which is to say, one finds oneself in that slight off but quite real netherworld between utter wakefulness and sleep or between hunger and something past hunger that opens in very physical ways by means, of course, of images that remain, and haunt - the drone of the tractor in the story, say, the scent of "moist decay." The mind, then, is a kind of hovercraft. One begins to see differently, an intensification. And it's a matter of the beloved particular again, what poems are made of.
An obvious example here might be Sylvia Plath's well-known poem "Tulips," itself about illness, seeing through that curious state, by definition unsettled and between worlds, not right, the happy clockwork of well-being shot to hell. The speaker in the poem is reduced to a hospital room, the details of her stripped-down fate - the family in a photograph "their little smiling hooks," and the "bright needles" that bring "numbness" to her. "Stupid pupil," she tells us of her eye in this lockdown which nevertheless "takes everything in." And it does, but so oddly that we feel a large shock with each small adjustment of the lens. And it isn't a lockdown, of course, but a place constantly released, refigured by a key element in Plath's genius - metaphor - the speaker "a thirty-year cargo boat," or "a pebble" the nurses tend as water might. Or she is a nun, and "never so pure."
But it's the tulips, the not-so-beloved particulars here, that rise up and overwhelm and transform this troubling daydream, this very "controlled hallucination" as Robert Lowell, Plath's teacher, once defined any poem worth the name. These tulips are "too red." They "breathe" through their paper "like an awful baby." They "talk to my wound." They are finally "a dozen red lead sinkers around my neck," or worse somehow, "dangerous animals╔opening like the mouth of some great African cat." In short, "it corresponds," Plath says, but "they are subtle. "The poet's attention here is on target, frightening and exact. Yet that sideways, wayward motion of half-sleep is here too. That fuels metaphor, this leap to some wild but, yes, corresponding elsewhere, envisioned so clearly in images that surprise us out of this room, out of this specific, seemingly hopeless life, a loosening, a flight. But isn't it perfectly ordinary? These tulips in a sickroom in their cheerful gift paper? But Plath X-rays these flowers into something strange, so many things even stranger until though we are everywhere except this room, we are nowhere else but here in this poem, this genuine near-accident of thinking, with its negative and positive, fully original charge.
And to get there? To arrive at that near-accident? I can't help reading Laura Jensen's poem "I Want Some" in this light, a kind of ars poetica, the poem a place really, where we are equally distanced, but narrowed to: <QUOTE REMOVED> 
The desire here is meticulous and large, both willful and -  unlike Plath's poem - consciously kept-back, everything precarious in that emphatic moment of almost knowing. The speaker would enter a house, but will not; does want some, but won't ask. "I have stood/so many times... /and peered/to where a bus should return..." she tells us, the experience of watching for, of trying to see through, such hours behind her that now give reason and purpose to any imagining. Thus,".. .1 feel I know/this poor lost house - /that developed tilt, that air/of studied mystery, that appeal..." But. This small word coming next is the great creaking hinge of the hidden trapdoor in so many poems. You could, in fact, triple that here - but but but - or cast it in italics or boldface, though Jensen does not. Her tact is too great, her restraint too immediate. "I will not steal some," she insists, "before I stand and wait." And then the closure's flood, both quickened and rooted by the hammered grace of the single-stressed words and the shortest of lines, not to mention the public elegance of the couplet shape, however ghostly and interior the utterance: "I want some./Oh, how I do." It's a stance that mines how difficult it is to lift the veil, to ready oneself to pass through to that other world - not really the self anymore, not anything predictable - and find the poem that waits there.
This sense of deep process, the poem and its own how-to kit somehow embedded inside it: <QUOTE REMOVED> I suddenly realize this is a vital impulse in any poem I love, any poem I am witness to, hearing -  overhearing, as Auden put it - a mind thinking, Elizabeth Bishop's profound wash for poems, that they be a "mind-in-action," taking image, idea apart, putting what-it's-become together in not quite the same way. John Berger said straight out: art is a record of creation, not representation. And so it's the seeing, not so much the thing seen, that colors what is found for the page. This might be a given among neuropsychologists, of course, one of whom, Richard Gregory, stating simply that "objects are public and experience is private," a fact made clear to any of us visiting our hometown years after leaving and coming upon familiar sites -  old house, old library, old bandshell in the park - totally altered and eerily the same. Either way, we're suddenly ghosts, our small utterly dramatic history there, pure smoke.
Still, this looking again, the double take that makes memory, is something that fuels so many cherished poems. But finding that hard stare, doing that, requires the patience that darkly shines in Jensen's poem. That patience is rare, but it's everywhere and enters right into the process of making such things. I recall Ellen Voigt in an after-reading discussion once, thrown that classic bewildering question - how do you write poems? how do you keep one going through all the moves it has to make? In response, she went deep into specifics, taking up from her third book. The Lotus Flowers, the poem "Nightshade," that apparently seamless creature. But she was X-raying it back, telling us with passion but still, with considerable dismay, how the piece had stopped her cold for quite some time. Because? First half, she told us, full story: a beloved dog, accidentally poisoned by its owner's mistaken dosage though the intent - a bit of strychnine as a "tonic" - was benign. Thus the "sobbing children" so carefully presented in the piece - it was "their father" after all, their dog, their front porch under which the stricken animal had crawled. The problem? The worry some poets have about all narrative, I suppose, be the story tragic or not: its sweet, irresistible ability to contain. Because it was all used up, Ellen Voigt was saying. The story was told. Where else was there to take it?
So she let it sit; basically she gave up. And only much later, there came the brilliant readjustment of the lens. She suddenly knew how to go further, how to break that surface fact. And the seam is disguised mid-stanza, the thread picked up by a simple but profound shift in point of view. No longer is it cool omniscience, but the sudden I, first person, the claim thrilling and decisive, kept barely in place by urgent dashes, the speaker stepping forth, owning up: <QUOTE REMOVED> 
Two jolts then: of person, third to definite first, a fierce launch that allows the poem's second great orbit, from story toward idea, toward sweep, which profoundly disrupts the very shape of things. "Without pure evil in the world,/" she can tell us now, "there was no east or west, no polestar/and no ratifying dove." The speaker returns then to memory, to other specifics of the past soaked now in this new troubling vision. She sees the girl she was, playing piano "in the small white house for hours," caught forever after in those two endless, warring points of reference, two songs, "one in a major, the other in a sad, minor key." And so Hecht's brooding mole-colored hill comes back, sharing the deep multiplicity of any given instant when so clearly seen, a single moment that can vastly enlarge - and alter - what is both past and future.

</file>

<file= AmE06_G25>

Secular humanism traces its origins back to the Renaissance, the Enlightenment, and the democratic revolutions of the modern world. As such, secular humanists have espoused a distinctive set of ethical values and principles, seeking to secularize human values and to emancipate individuals from repressive ideologies and theologies. The word secular qualifies humanism, because we are skeptical of traditional faith in God and salvation and are nonreligious. But we cannot be defined simply by our unbelief. We accept a naturalistic, evolutionary worldview, for it is based upon evidence and has been tested by the methods of science. The term humanist ethics helps to define who and what we are. Clearly, we believe in "Life, Liberty and the pursuit of Happiness." In ethical terms, this means the right of individuals to realize their own interests and aspirations on their own terms, so long as they do not harm others or prevent those people from pursuing their interests and aspirations. It is hoped that this will mean the achievement of some measure of excellence in their personal lives. Humanist ethics commits us to beliefs in the autonomy of choice and the right of privacy, consonant with the constraints of the public order and the duly enacted laws. We are committed to the civic virtues of democracy. This entails tolerance for diversity in personal tastes, beliefs, and lifestyles.
Secular humanists are also concerned with maximizing the common good for the widest number of individuals within a democratic framework. I am not here defending a utilitarian ethical theory in the sense that the common good is the ultimate criterion of moral choice. I think that there are many principles and values that we consider in making choices, but the common good is surely a vital element.
I submit that there is a key principle of fairness related to the common good that is being eroded and that needs to be defended anew. I am here referring to progressive taxation, which I would justify on humanist ethical grounds.
I have long argued that the secular humanist movement should not take political positions per se. As individuals, we can disagree about candidates and party platforms. However, certain ethical principles are central to secular humanism; and, if humanists do not take some concrete actions, then we risk the danger of engaging in purely abstract prattle, with no practical consequences.
I am sure that our libertarian readers will kick up a storm of protest against my support of progressive taxation. This issue is not simply economic or political; it is primarily ethical. It is based on the principle that all individuals in a democratic society ought to be considered equal in dignity and value and, hence, entitled to equality of consideration. Every child is included, no matter what his or her racial, ethnic, religious, or class background; the son or daughter of the poor person as well as that of the rich; the disadvantaged as well as the advantaged. The democratic ethic holds that every individual should have an opportunity to realize his or her potentialities in society-the best and noblest of which each is capable. This presupposes an open society that affords some recognition and reward for merit. Every child is entitled to have access to education, proper nutrition, and good health care, even if his or her parents lack an adequate income.
A system of progressive taxation has now been instituted in virtually every democratic country of the world. Democratically elected governments have the right to exact taxation, and the tax rates ought to be graduated; that is, the wealthy classes ought to be taxed proportionally more than the working classes. These tax revenues should be applied for the common good, providing a level playing field for all sectors of society. Unfortunately, the concept of progressive taxation is progressively being whittled away, especially where extreme laissez-faire attitudes dominate.
A disturbing development is that in the United States an increasingly polarized society is taking form, with wide disparities in income and wealth among residents and a concomitant reduction in the capacity of the middle class to maintain its standard of living.
The income tax was enacted in the early part of the twentieth century. Rates at first were low, but they were gradually increased so that, by the time of Franklin Delano Roosevelt and during the Eisenhower years, the top rates reached 91 percent, clearly confiscatory.
The reverse situation now seems to prevail. The trend today is to reduce taxes for the wealthy. Thus, income earned from dividends and capital gains are taxed at only 15 percent (no doubt to bolster the stock markets), whereas income earned from a job or profession is taxed at higher rates, depending on income. There is also a concerted effort to get rid of estate taxes-misnamed "death taxes"-and either reduce the rates significantly or entirely repeal them.
Conservatives argue that reduced taxes stimulate the growth of the gross national product and thereby increase general prosperity. There is another index that ought to be applied in judging the viability of an economic-political system, and that is the quality of life of the society and how widely it is shared. The principle of fairness states that, in an affluent society, no citizen should have his or her basic economic, health, and cultural needs denied; there ought to be a floor in the income available for everybody in society. This is particularly the case in a situation where huge fortunes are being amassed.
The current effort to repeal the estate tax is puzzling. It is said that to tax an estate is to tax income twice. But this argument makes little sense, particularly since dividends and capital gains, which contribute significantly to wealth, have lower tax rates. Given compounded interest rates, the growth of huge fortunes is accelerating. If this process continues, we are likely to see the emergence of an entrenched plutocracy, which is bound to have a deleterious effect on the common good by corrupting the electoral process and the political system. Special-interest lobbying could distort the legislative agenda and exacerbate gross inequalities in income and wealth.
The conservative complains about the abuses of the system, especially "welfare cheats," because the benefits that are delivered to such people are unearned. But, we may ask, in what sense is the income and wealth of the heirs of vast family estates earned by them, when they may not have been involved in the building of the fortune? Why should earned income-from a job or profession-be taxed at a higher rate than unearned income in the form of dividends, capital gains, or reduced estate taxes? Where is the fairness in such a system of taxation?
Many huge fortunes may have been amassed due to luck or chance and not the innovation of the individuals who acquired them. Winners of lotteries and speculators in stocks and real estate may not necessarily possess the special acumen of entrepreneurs. I grant that some individuals do contribute extraordinarily to social wealth and that incentives are a powerful stimulus to their efforts. They should be rewarded. But not everyone who strikes it rich earned his or her bonanza by contributing to the wealth of society.
A system of progressive taxation allows for modestly graduated higher rates that are not confiscatory. As a matter of fact, a compromise bill before the congress exempted estates up to $4 million from taxation. Progressive taxation provides some redress of inequities in society while allowing a substantial portion of the value of estates to be passed on. We must not allow greed to outweigh all other considerations. Should it not be balanced with the principles of equity?
Those who would deny any principles of fairness believe that evangelical capitalism is the savior of society, almost "the hand of God," rewarding the devout and virtuous. Granted that the role of free-market incentives is essential for expanding the economy, but the private sector may not be able to satisfy all of the needs of society. Although philanthropy sometimes helps to fill the gaps, it may not be enough. Hence, there ought to be room for public support when the private sector is unable to fulfill vital social needs.
A functioning democratic society is one in which citizens in all sectors can enjoy the fruits of their labor. This is the basic principle of progressive taxation. Unfortunately, America has been overwhelmed by the mantra that the enemy is always the government or the state. Any effort to assist the disadvantaged is opposed. Thus, there is great reluctance to increase the minimum wage, even though its real value has declined 20 percent in the last decade. Forty-four million Americans still do not have health insurance. At the same time, great fortunes have grown exponentially.
Added to this is the misery caused when an industry outsources jobs, decides to leave an area, or insists that wages and benefits be drastically cut (as at Delphi and General Motors). The first casualties are working- and middle-class Americans, not top executives. Before this recourse is taken, in my view, there ought to be a limit on golden parachutes and a cap on the salaries of corporate leaders, particularly when the survival of an industry is endangered. Moreover, there need to be massive private and public efforts to retrain workers for new jobs.
Progressive taxation is a principle that we can defend on rational humanist ethical grounds and in terms of fairness. It is essential to maintain it if our democratic institutions are to survive and flourish.
Second Latin-American Congress Held in Peru
I recently returned from Lima, Peru, where the Center for Inquiry/Transnational cosponsored the Second Ibero-American Congress. The first was held last year in Argentina. Norm Allen, co-director of Transnational Programs, and other members of the staff accompanied me to the congress, which was held at San Marcos University, an institution that was founded in 1512 and is considered to be the oldest university in the Western Hemisphere.
I am sure that readers of this magazine are well aware how the Spanish conquistadors, led by Francisco Pizarro, in search of gold, brutally vanquished the great Inca civilization that they found. A repressive Roman Catholic Church has reigned since in Peru and other South American societies, though many countries were liberated from the Spanish yoke in the nineteenth century by such men as San Martin and Simon Bolivar.
I am pleased to say that there are now two South American Centers for Inquiry-in Buenos Aires and Lima; and there are great plans for future development. The Center for Inquiry in Amherst publishes the Spanish-language magazine, Pensar (To Think), which is distributed throughout the Spanish-speaking world. Editors from some twelve countries make up its editorial board. The leaders of the congress declared their support for our endeavors and have issued a declaration defending secularism and science and calling for the development of additional Centers and Communities throughout Latin America.

A recent study conducted at Johns Hopkins sought to explain the neurological effects of psilocybin, the active ingredient in the Psilocybe genus of mushrooms. While millions of amateur researchers have been investigating the subjective effects of so-called magic mushrooms for decades, and they've been used in Native American ritual for perhaps thousands of years, the psychopharmacological studies conducted by the researchers were intended to explore the potential therapeutic use and effect of the drug. Such studies have been conducted before, including significant studies in the sixties and seventies regarding the use of another popular compound, MDMA (3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine, commonly known as ecstasy), in psychotherapy. Of course, these studies have typically been frowned upon in the context of the ongoing and largely fruitless "war on drugs"-which is why, perhaps, the latest results have been cast in the light of "spirituality."
The investigators of the magic mushrooms took pains to couch their findings in the language of spirituality, describing the effects as a "full mystical experience." Researchers also noted that a good majority of the subjects used in the study described feelings of well-being that lasted for months after they ingested the drug.

</file>

<file= AmE06_G26>

I was around for almost none of the period and place that's the subject of Jed Perl's New Art City: Manhattan at Mid-Century (Knopf, 2005). In fact, the first time I saw the metropolis in concrete flesh was in the summer of 1960. A college buddy and I (age nineteen and junior-to-be at Southern Cal) were doing a low-budget imitation of the television program Route 66: a 12,000-mile circumnavigation of the U.S.A. in a tiny 1953 MG-TD. A day or two before we limped into the Big Apple with a leaky water pump, a tattooed female carny worker we'd met in Lake George took us to a field in Bolton Landing where some crazy artist had left all these weird, abstract metal sculptures standing out in the sun. Although I'd just declared myself an art major, I didn't know squat; I had no idea I was looking at the work of David Smith. In Manhattan, my friend and I stayed at the ymca for a couple of nights and mostly went to bars - one could drink legally in New York at eighteen - before heading south to D.C. Two and a half years later, I was back, with a Volkswagen full of fellow Syracuse University graduate students. After we all went to the benchmark Pop art exhibition The New Realists (Warhol, Lichtenstein, Oldenburg, et al.) at the Sidney Janis Gallery, I thought I knew more than everything. 
     From that time until I finally moved to Manhattan in 1985, I made maybe thirty short trips to New York, mostly to update myself on the galleries and check in with Artforum, to which I hustled most of my early art criticism. The city always seemed to me to be hard, intense, colorless, and scary. The Texas art critic Dave Hickey, in residence there for a while, cautioned me to regard New York as "la ville occupée" when I went out on the street. After one boozy night at Max's Kansas City in the '70s left me without sufficient cash for a cab, I walked all the way from that downtown bar to John Coplans's place on 86th Street, where I was staying. I cleaved to the middle of the street and, wearing a leather jacket and stocking cap, tried to look as little like a muggee and as much like a mugger as I could.
     Today, most of us artsies carry around in our subconsciousnesses a similarly gritty vision of New York, albeit tarted up a bit with festive, rippling banners on the façade of the Metropolitan Museum of Art and the ready availability of lattés in gallery neighborhoods. The mean streets so ugly and threatening to red-staters are bee-yoo-tee-ful to people like Perl and me. Of course, Perl wasn't around back in the day, either. He's too young. But he is a dyed-in-the-wool New Yorker. He's also an aesthetically conservative critic with enough self-confidence to bandy about (in a recent denunciation from his regular pulpit at The New Republic of the new Museum of Modern Art) such phrases as "the hopes of many of the New Yorkers who care most passionately about twentieth-century art" and "the heart and soul of artistic New York," as though he were their sole appointed counsel. Not surprisingly, his New Art City is a keeper-of-the-flame's account of a brief golden age in New York, "a fifteen-year period that began roughly with [Willem] de Kooning's first one-man show at the Charles Egan Gallery in 1948 and ended when Pop Art was the darling of the news media." Artists - Perl argues in essence - started out that brief-but-shining moment private, poor, and pure, and concluded it - at least those who don't make his roster of neglected favorites - ruined by fame, funds, and fun.
     A dependably mellifluous writer, Perl is especially good on New York's irresistible ability to turn culture - i.e., the manmade environment - into nature (what surrounds you, what you take as the absolutely given environment in which you have to live). In a New York steadily hemorrhaging manufacturing jobs, the "many young men [who] . . . came to Manhattan and gave painting a couple of years" could, as artists, "catch afterimages and echoes of the working man's struggles, of those struggles that had been the very lifeblood of New York, in the worn wooden floors and creaking elevators and stained façades of all the buildings full of lofts and cold-water flats where the painters and sculptors were now making their homes." They also might run into one or another of the grand artistic personalities of the day - say, Hans Hofmann, the legendary German émigré teacher of the "push-pull" doctrine of modernist painting and the only Abstract Expressionist ever, really, to conquer the space of full-blown color. Or the wickedly witty, devilishly handsome, and outrageously talented de Kooning. Or perhaps even Jackson Pollock himself, when he was in town from The Springs in the Hamptons, drunk and stirring up shit at the Cedar Tavern. "It's not surprising," Perl writes, "that the New York artists, addicted as they were to the hardest-to-define ideas, should have created a freewheeling, decade-long seminar-cum-party whose full significance nobody has ever really been able to explain." 
     Forgetting for the nonce that the author spends 641 pages trying to explain it, Perl's diagnosis of the condition resulting in the demise of those halcyon days - when Abstract Expressionism came to rule the art world as America's first homegrown avant-garde movement - is public success. As Michael J. Lewis's judicious review of the book in the January 2006 issue of Commentary notes, Perl is mostly interested in "the private lobe [of the art world], where dozens of individual painters and sculptors, laboring in the solitary outposts of their studios, struggle to give aesthetic expression to personal feeling." So to Perl, when the phenomenon occurred that "artists were beginning to sell, and they were well aware that among the architects and designers and ad people and their friends in the business world were potential buyers," the end was nigh. Contemporary art in the 1950s and '60s rapidly became bigger and bigger business. Johnny-come-lately Abstract Expressionists, then Color Field painters, then Minimalists, and worst of all Pop artists figured out that viable careers - in which they'd regard viewers less in the way that hermits judge tourists and more in the way that novelists think about potential readers - could be had among the lofts and galleries of Manhattan.
     And conspicuously successful careers were indeed had. Jasper Johns and Robert Rauschenberg got richer than de Kooning ever dreamed of. Don Judd came to own a building in SoHo in which he could devote an entire expensive storefront to a Zen-like (okay, Comme des Garçons - like) display of his work and favorite antique furniture. Then he bought a big chunk of Texas where he could display, in hoped-for perpetuity, the art of his friends. The Andy Warhol Foundation - the money didn't come from his mother, you know - gives grants to artists who are probably better off than Jackson Pollock was at the peak of his short career. And let's not even mention the fortunes of Claes Oldenburg, Roy Lichtenstein, Julian Schnabel, Eric Fischl, Kiki Smith, and anybody who shows more than once at Mary Boone, PaceWildenstein, or Larry Gagosian. 
     Though this geometrical expansion of the market for new art over the last forty years does have its problems (e.g., the carbuncle of a reality tv show called Art Star, in which, judging from an exhibition of the finalists I saw, unbelievably shallow young artists compete for a solo show at [Jeffrey] Dietch Projects in SoHo), its consequences certainly aren't all bad. Maybe they're mostly good: artists address an audience and patrons (just as they did in the Renaissance, or in Rembrandt's time!) instead of their own bellybuttons; artists don't count absolutely on living off the government or teaching jobs or their parents or a few mercy purchases from dermatologists they happen to know; artists don't have to walk around looking like Rasputin or Lotte Lenya in The Threepenny Opera. Only a hidebound moralist could give an emphatic, overall thumbs-down to the improvement in artists' living standards in post-midcentury Manhattan. I've always called that phenomenon in life-in-general the Problem of Your Father. "Son," your father says to you when you're a kid, "I'm going to see to it that you never have it as hard as I did coming up." When you're an adult, your father says to you, "Son, the trouble with you is that you've had it too soft."
     Perl is indeed such a moralist, but in New Art City the chronological turf he has claimed bids him less to scold what he sees as the coddled, pandering-to-trends newcomers who've had it too soft than it moves him to try to rehabilitate the unjustly (to Perl) neglected "counter-expressions" artists he loves. "These . . . ranged," he writes, "from the painterly realism of Fairfield Porter and Robert De Niro and Nell Blaine and Earl Kerkam to the geometric abstraction of Burgoyne Diller and Ilya Bolotowsky and Myron Stout - and the work of these artists ought to be counted among the signal achievements of the School of New York." All of these artists are good artists; a few of them are even near-great (to my mind Porter, Diller, and Stout). But does their work really represent a "signal achievement" of that era, as measured against de Kooning, Pollock, Franz Kline, Barnett Newman, Robert Motherwell, Mark Rothko, Ad Reinhardt, Louise Nevelson, William Baziotes, and Adolph Gottlieb? Please. Grade inflation in modern art history these days is not, apparently, confined to the classroom.
     The quieter the art - in comparison to the big noisy painting ushered in by the headline Abstract Expressionists - the more strained and sentimental Perl's justifications become. "In the years after 1960, [Blaine] achieved a full-out lyricism rare in American art." Moderate lyricism, perhaps. Full-out? I doubt it. Rare in American art? Hardly. To prop up Leland Bell, a pretty good figurative painter who's anything more than that only if you willfully ignore David Park, Elmer Bischoff, and Richard Diebenkorn in California, Perl hauls out the poet-critic John Ashbery. "Seeing him in his studio," Ashbery says in quotation, "vigorously at work on a number of canvases and meanwhile sounding off on his various pet peeves and enthusiasms, one has the feeling of coming upon an almost extinct variety of whooping crane, alive and well in its environment." Very diplomatic, I'd say - praising the artist with no consequential mention of the art, in order to complete the assignment (this one for Art News in what should have been for Perl the irrelevant year of 1970) and stay true to one's real taste without torpedoing a friendship. 
     To squeeze the likes of Blaine and Bell into a crucial chronicle like New Art City, some gratuitous diminishment of truly great artists is necessary. On de Kooning, Perl sics Louis Finkelstein, another pretty good figurative painter. For Finkelstein, de Kooning had foresworn "all discipline save the experience itself." But at least de Kooning studied in a rigorous art academy, stayed broke for a long time, lived in a literal cold-water flat, and didn't turn a profit on his painting until he was pushing fifty - important artistic virtues for Perl. Jasper Johns presents him with a much bigger obstacle. Johns creates enigmatic, discreetly Duchampian, and ultimately very influential art as early as 1955. And he's slyly publicity-savvy from the git-go. On Johns, Perl drops his most lethal adjective: "clever." 
For the frontal assault, however, Perl calls in help. Not Ashbery or Finkelstein this time, but Fairfield Porter. "[The] critic managed to suggest in the pages of a powerful art magazine [a 1964 issue of Art News] that Johns was not all that he was cracked up to be," Perl writes, "although the message would probably have gotten through only to those who were already attuned to the drift of Porter's argument." Translation: For those of you who already hate this sort of art, this is the sort of art you'll hate. In Perl's summation, Porter's cat's paw verdict was that Johns was "a boy-man who had completed his lessons and put them together into an accomplished essay form that challenged his teachers, but just so much."

</file>

<file= AmE06_G27>

The militaristic moral and political economy of Oceania in Orwell's 1984 is a product of totalitarianism. It also describes, some argue, the "post-9-11" era and the "Global War on Terror" (GWT). In calling for a global response to 9-11, George W. Bush has made an ultimatum, an international invitation to join a war that must target dozens of countries to be "won." This universal challenge to fight the "evil" seeking to destroy "civilization" is essentially an annunciation of "World War." Perhaps the name "WW III" has not stuck because this new kind of war looks nothing like its Cold War-era predictions. WW III was to be unwinnable and something akin to Armageddon.
The cultivation of a xenophobic war-time affect among the American population since 9-11 is also evidence of a true world war. Having a population with a "mentality appropriate to a state of war" emboldens the Bush administration to boast that finding WMDs in Iraq is irrelevant, despite world-wide skepticism. It emboldens Bush to repackage illegal domestic wiretaps as "terrorist surveillance" and to speak of this extra-legal NSA program with pride. Given the global scope of the battleground in the War on Terror, it was only natural for the Bush administration to do its best to make al Qaeda part of its case for war in Iraq, regardless of the evidence. Thus, rather than the "Second Gulf War," the current war in Iraq is but a front in the GWT. This both lowers expectations for success - limited success on a front need not prevent overall success - and legitimates the GWT as a whole. Linking the current war in Iraq to 9-11 also reinforces the definition of the GWT as a World War. It is precisely the vast, global nature of 9-11 and its roots that make the event perfect for conspiracy theory.
Among the many books that have been published on 9-11 in less than five years, only a few argue that 9-11 was more than a devastating terror attack and a declaration of war. While much that has been published on the subject of "9-11" deals with biography, with the history or roots of the largest terrorist attack ever on U.S. soil, or with how the attack was actually conducted, only a few books on 9-11 have sought to define the event as resulting from conspiracy, not merely a matter of terror, neglect, incompetence, or systemic imperfections. There are three main themes or types of conspiracy theory among those few books in the emerging 9-11 genre that seriously consider the idea of conspiracy. First, 9-11 is a pretext for the U.S. government to consolidate domestic power. Second, 9-11 is the result of a U.S. governmental and corporate conspiracy to control Central Asian oil. And, third, 9-11 involves a conspiracy by the U.S. and Saudi Arabia to control the Middle East. It should also be said that none of the three types of conspiracy theory sees fears of globalization or cultural hegemony as being a cause or goal of any 9-11 conspiracy: globalization and global struggle actually benefit both the West and radical Islamism. (It should be noted that none of these conspiracy theories buys into the notion of a Zionist conspiracy, which is perhaps a fourth type of conspiracy theory that some have offered in the wake of 9-11, though not in book-length form.)
Three books, published less than a year after 9-11, stand out among those theorizing conspiracy. In 9-11 (2001), a collection of interviews, Noam Chomsky places 9-11 within a broader conspiracy between government and multinational corporations that he has explored in many books, most notably in Manufacturing Consent.Forbidden Truth (2002), by investigative journalists Jean-Charles Brisard and Guillaume Dasquié, argues that disputes over rights to Central Asian petroleum and gas fueled 9-11. Nafeez Mosaddeq Ahmed's The War on Freedom (2002) is at once a reference work about the events surrounding 9-11, and an argument about the conspiracy behind the failure to prevent the actual attacks. A "political scientist and human rights activist," Ahmed argues that 9-11 is being used as a pretext for domestic repression. These three books underscore a political pattern: the left sees the war as about much more than meets the eye; whereas the right sees no conspiracy.
The three also represent major ways to define the scope of a conspiracy. Perhaps because he is a social scientist, Chomsky takes the long view, putting 9-11, which he compares to the War of 1812, into the broader context of 200 years of American history and "governmentality." Perhaps out of journalistic habit, Brisard and Dasquiè keep narrowly focused on the connections between 9-11, the Middle East, and Central Asia. Their bottom line is that U.S. oil consumption and craving are responsible for 9-11. In the manner of a think-tank scholar, Ahmed documents a lengthy and broad historical narrative stretching from 1986 into 2002. After documenting the events leading up to 9-11, and arguing that it should have been easily prevented, Ahmed argues that it has "benefited" the government, and the weapons and oil industries.
A number of 9-11 conspiracy theorists have made the connection between the events of 9-11 and the burning of the Reichstag by the Nazi Party as a pretext for eliminating German communists and cracking down on other domestic dissent. Chomsky and Ahmed emphasize this broader purpose behind the conspiracy, while Brisard and Dasquiè view 9-11 as either a defensive or a retributive strike by Afghanistan. Chomsky and Ahmed, however, disagree on the complicity of U.S. intelligence agencies in allowing or fomenting 9-11. Chomsky counts 9-11 as one of many U.S. intelligence failures; Ahmed presents an array of evidence showing that U.S. intelligence was aware of 9-11 preparations. The "9-11 as Pretext" narrative has two levels: first, broader conspiratorial aims of U.S. hegemony, and second the complex machinery necessary to allow the actual events of 11 September 2001 to occur. Chomsky tends to focus on the first level; Ahmed the second.
In a series of interviews given in the first few weeks following 9-11, Chomsky puts it into the broader matrix of corporate-governmental conspiracy that he has spent much of his scholarly career carefully documenting and recounting. He remarks on the failure of the U.S. intelligence community (used primarily to support business and military interests rather than "Homeland security"), and argues that 9-11 should be investigated and pursued as a crime rather than as a war. Unlike Chomsky, who claims that 9-11 resulted from incompetence, Ahmed argues, "The tragic catastrophe of 11th September, which apparently was permitted to occur by the Bush administration ... allowed the U.S. to expand, consolidate and empower its hegemony, both at home and abroad, to an unprecedented level" (18). Several U.S. intelligence services - the CIA chief among them - played pivotal roles in allowing 9-11 and using it as a pretext for war (Ahmed 23-4, 34-5).
Chomsky's broader historical scope leads him to discuss the long-term implications of 9-11 as pretext: "Such terrorist atrocities are a gift to the harshest and most repressive elements on all sides, and are sure to be exploited - already have been in fact - to accelerate the agenda of militarization, regimentation, reversal of social democratic programs, transfer of wealth to narrow sectors, and undermining democracy in any meaningful form" (19). The goal of a conspiracy behind 9-11 is to purify America, solidify its boundaries, militarize its culture, and mobilize its population for a wartime economy. Although the absolute idea of a visual or accentual racial purity in America has dimmed - the idea of an "American Race," as Theodore Roosevelt might have spoken of at the beginning of the twentieth century - the Global War on Terror is meant as a purification of America's ideals of rugged individualism, the free market, and patriotism. This new American race might be more diverse in its appearance and speech, but it also makes the ideal of the "American" an absolute and necessary goal for global progress.
All three books point to the crucial issue of long-term U.S. involvement by the Reagan, Bush I, and Clinton administrations in seeking to stabilize and economically exploit Central Asia, and Afghanistan in particular, as a factor leading to 9-11. Each also tries to contextualize this within the history of the "Great Game" between Russia and Great Britain in the nineteenth century to dominate Central Asia. Unlike Chomsky, Ahmed and Brisard and Dasquiè view Afghanistan and Central Asia as the primary target of the conspiracy. Brisard and Dasquiè put it bluntly, "What we do know for sure is that from February 5 to August 2, 2001, the United States engaged in private and risky discussions with the Taliban concerning geostrategic oil interests, among other things... The suicide attacks of September 11 were possibly the outcome of this initiative" (xxxiv). While Brisard and Disquiè are strictly interested in a conspiracy surrounding the projected oil and gas reserves of Central Asia, Ahmed sees the U.S. goal of Central Asian hegemony as being more a means of maintaining exclusive world power. While Chomsky clearly understands the place of Afghanistan in 9-11, he sees the U.S. bombing of Khartoum, Sudan in 1998 as being much more instrumental in leading to 9-11 (52-3). Indeed, this bombing is one of the colossal intelligence failures that Chomsky argues is leading directly to humanitarian disasters bordering on genocide (45-6).
Each book also points to American collusion with Saudi Arabia as being instrumental in leading to the events of 9-11. Saudi complicity in 9-11 remains a widely held suspicion among many Americans. While Chomsky and Ahmed analyze the broader Saudi governmental and cultural influences on the 9-11 conspiracy, Brisard and Dasquié's thesis itself hinges on a direct Saudi role in 9-11, and long-term U.S. complicity with the Saudi royal family. At the heart of this narrative is the long relationship between various U.S. administrations and the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia to develop and exploit the oil resources of the Arabian peninsula, culminating in efforts by the Clinton and Bush administrations to arrange for the building of an oil pipeline in Afghanistan, with the cooperation of the Taliban regime. The second Bush administration plays a particularly large part in the "Saudi Connection" version of 9-11, according to Brisard and Dasquié and Ahmed, because of its numerous connections to several multinational oil companies. Chomsky, on the other hand, tends to downplay the role of either the Bush administration or the Saudi royal family in 9-11. And unlike Ahmed - who puts bin Laden into a broader historical context - Brisard and Dasquié focus their entire argument on links between the Saudi royal family and bin Laden, arguing that the two continue to share deep ideological and economic ties.
The importance of Osama bin Laden to the 9-11 conspiracy varies considerably among the three books. Ahmed and Chomsky tend to minimize his importance outside that of symbolism, while Brisard and Dasquié judge his individual role to be pivotal (evidenced by the subtitle of their book). In this sense, Osama bin Laden and al-Qaeda are the perfect "official" enemy (Chomsky classifies U.S. enemies as either "official" or not); if they could be associated with any state other than Saudi Arabia, it would be the regime that controlled most of Afghanistan. Osama bin Laden and al-Qaeda are used to put a face on an enemy that is not only faceless, but appears to be stateless, transnational, and certainly "monstrous" (Puar and Rai 118-20). This simultaneously allows a diffusion of the possible targets for political and military action - leading to world war - and permits an indefinite prolongation of hostilities against an implacable enemy (Rumsfeld's "long war"). As a result, ideology - politics and religion - also plays a large role in the "Saudi Connection" narrative, though not in a symmetrical manner, according to Chomsky and Ahmed. Unlike Brisard and Dasquié, who describe bin Laden as being motivated by financial power rather than spiritual or political power (103-11), Chomsky and Ahmed describe bin Laden's motivation as largely religious (Chomsky 31-2, 59; Ahmed 19-54, 78). Each of the books uses the several failed attempts to capture bin Laden as evidence of conspiracy.
How is a war named?

</file>

<file= AmE06_G28>

It takes only one book to make a legend. George Washington never would have chopped down that cherry tree without Mason Locke Weems's "biographies," A History of the Life and Death, Virtues and Exploits, of General George Washington (1800) and The Life of George Washington, with Curious Anecdotes Laudable to Himself and Exemplary to his Countrymen (1806). The anecdote is a reminder that one cannot underestimate the importance of simply being first, when it comes to biography; how many unavailing generations of historians have labored to banish the story from texts? Now a teacher might note that the story is a myth - but it still bears classroom repetition because, after all, it is a snappy story. The annals of American biography sometimes refuse to let the facts get in the way of a good story.
Sequoyah (c. 1760-1843?) was one so vetted for greatness. Marion L. Starkey's faded landmark. The Cherokee Nation, introduces "one of the most modest of Cherokees," with some immodest praise: Sequoyah "belongs in a category beyond ordinary historical fame. His place is not far below that of those primal geniuses who made civilization possible by inventing the bow and arrow and the wheel, by discovering that fire can be kindled and controlled for pleasant purposes. Sequoia is just such another as Prometheus" (48). The official website of the Cherokee Nation seconds that notion: "Between the years of 1809 and 1821, he accomplished a feat, which no other person in history has done single-handedly. Through the development of the Cherokee Syllabary, he brought our people literacy and the gift of communicating through long distances and the ages. This one person brought to his people this great gift without hired educators, no books and no cost" ("History of Sequoyah").
Testimonies to Sequoyah's brief celebrity abound to the point of faddishness in nineteenth-century literature. In the twentieth century, many of Sequoyah's biographies have been geared toward schoolchildren, of which Janet Klausner's Sequoyah 5 Gift: A Portrait of the Cherokee Leader collects between two covers an impressively complete stock of Sequoyah legend. "His vision and boldness," writes Duane H. King in an afterword, "continue to inspire those who dream of a better future." Straight-shooting frontier icon Sam Houston, the governor-elect of Tennessee who lived among the Cherokees at various times throughout his life and became the first president of Texas in 1836, is said to have declared, "[Sequoyah], your invention of the alphabet is worth more to your people than two bags full of gold in the hand of every Cherokee" ("History of Sequoyah"). Thomas Underwood writes in The Story of the Cherokee People (1961),"Sequoyah was probably the greatest of all Cherokees" (25). No superlative suffices for Sequoyah; his scribes are reduced to hyperbole. From the time of its invention, the mere existence of the alphabet (a bit of a misnomer, as I will explain) has been cited persistently as evidence for the general superiority of the Cherokees among the American Indian nations. In 1975 linguist Willard Walker was moved to deem Sequoyah's achievement "one of the most remarkable tours de force in American history" (Perdue, "The Sequoyah Syllabary" 118).
It is the version familiar to many of us from the date-and-fact school of history: Sequoyah, exalted hero of the most civilized tribe, was the only person to create an entire alphabet from scratch. The only problem is that the history catechism version is demonstrably inaccurate. As a matter of common sense, we know the singularity of Sequoyah's achievement to be at least improbable. The origins of most scripts are lost to antiquity and thus cannot be ascribed to a particular individual, but it beggars reason to conclude that no single person had invented a script before. So precisely what was Sequoyah's achievement? And just who was he?
My interest in Sequoyah began with what I thought would be a simple enquiry about a figure who has become emblematic of Cherokee pride. I soon realized that Sequoyah scholars run into a thicket of biographical hearsay, strange conspiracy theories, and assorted misinformation. The same might well be said of George Washington, but what is regrettable in Sequoyah's case is that he is a Native American eminently worthy of proper biography but about whom almost nothing reliable has been written. Oral tradition supports the existence of the man; written tradition seems mainly to obscure him. It may well be that this trail will always run cold, but my purposes are to set out the biographical data for which I was able to find some verification, to put Sequoyah's achievement in context and, to the extent possible, to acknowledge some of the perplexities surrounding a historical person completely overshadowed by his historical personage.
Sequoyah's Achievement
To begin with, it would be more accurate to say that Sequoyah, whose "English" name is sometimes given as George Guess, was the first widely-reported non-literate creator of a syllabic writing system. It may seem like hair-splitting, but technically Sequoyah created a syllabary, not an alphabet. A syllabary contains the symbols of a syllabic writing system. These syllables in turn are combinations of phonemes, the smallest contrastable particles of phonetic (that is, "heard") speech. Thus, a syllabary contains symbols that represent combinations of sound segments (generally the consonants around a vowel); an alphabet contains the segments themselves. For example, if we used a syllabary in English, we would have a single symbol for "wa." But English presents a staggering number of syllabic permutations, whereas Cherokee offers a relatively small set. Hence, conventionally, Cherokee is "tsa la gi," and requires just three of Sequoyah's characters to write.
So if one put it in a more qualified way, how could one describe what Sequoyah did? Prentice Robinson, in the introduction to his Cherokee Dictionary, distinguishes Sequoyah's achievement this way: "Cherokee is unique in that one of their own harnessed the tones and identified them by symbols. This is the work Sequoyah did" (ii). Even if it were true during Sequoyah's lifetime, Robinson's statement must be set against other instances of "unsophisticated inventors." According to linguist Peter T. Daniels, who studies grammatogenesis (the invention of a writing system), inventors of writing systems can be subdivided into two classes: sophisticated and unsophisticated (579). Sophisticated grammatogenists (writing system creators) are Uterate folk, generally outsiders, who possesses some knowledge of phonetics. By contrast, unsophisticated grammatogenists cannot read in any language, and they are few in number. Sequoyah belongs to this latter class.
To give an example of a "sophisticated" inventor of a writing system, we may note Samuel Pollard (1864-1915), a Methodist missionary in southern China, who invented a script for the language now called Western Hmong. Subsequently his system was adapted to about a dozen Southeast Asian languages." The case of English-born James Evans offers a much closer parallel in terms of Native American literacy. Evans immigrated to Lower Canada in 1820 and, following a camp conversion, later became a Methodist minister. As a missionary, teacher, and amateur linguist, Evans hatched an Ojibwe syllabary after abandoning the Roman alphabet, and later invented one for Cree. As with Sequoyah, his invention was credited for a rapid rise in native literacy rate, and his alphabet remains widely embraced by the Cree (Hutchinson).
Missionaries and anthropologists devised writing systems where needed, but we must remember that Sequoyah was nonliterate. If Sequoyah were unique, as some of his biographers claim, we would expect him to be the OÍITK "unsophisticated" inventor of a script. But he is not alone; in fact, he is in a small but illustrious company. A Winnebago speaker adapted a system from Fox speakers in 1884; in
1904, Silas John Edwards, monolingual and barely acquainted with script, launched a unique writing system for the Western Apache. Around the same time, Uyaqoq, more widely known by his name translation, "Neck," devised a script at a Moravian mission in Southwest Alaska. Elsewhere in the world we find other examples: early in the twentieth century. King Njoya of the Bamum tribe of central Cameroon was bemused by the literate doings of missionaries, so he invented a script after receiving a dream about it. Other historically recent examples come from Suriname and the Caroline islands (Daniels 583-85). All things considered, these "alphabets" comprise a very small set, and Sequoyah's story furnishes one of the earliest examples.
Of course, if Sequoyah follows the trend among these alphabet inventors, he may have quite literally dreamed up his alphabet. Many later accounts suggest that he was a dreamer. Many stories of unsophisticated grammatogenists point to a nexus between divine inspiration, vision, and the invention of writing: the script inventor receives divine inspiration in a dream while outside the social unit. He strives to bring heavenly benefits to his people and to allow them to emulate literate societies so that messages may carry beyond speaking distance. In Sequoyah's case, most accounts mention that he was intrigued by "the talking leaf - his term for printed pages - and, as Theda Perdue writes, "most Cherokees believed that writing was spiritual rather than mechanical, a gift of the gods rather than a creation of man" ("The Sequoyah Syllabary" 121).
Remarkably - and tantalizingly for those who would reconstruct the invention of written language - these unsophisticated grammatogenists share a set of common traits. Most inventors begin with a logographic system (wherein each symbol represents a word); all of them subsequently create a syllabary - not an alphabet. Sign order is random; similar syllables do not share graphic similarity. Indeed, Sequoyah's story marches in lockstep with the pattern, although there is some dispute over precisely how it evolved. Conventionally, he began by creating symbols for every word (a logographic system), a process interrupted when his wife, Sally Waters, cast them in the fire. In fact, many accounts suggest that Sally Waters was concerned to protect her husband from accusations of witchcraft, a charge much in keeping with the supernatural origins often associated with writing systems (Bender 30-33). Regardless, the unflappable Sequoyah, well schooled in marital diplomacy, reportedly went back to the drawing board. But he was inspired to try a more economical system. Many versions of Sequoyah's story (e.g.. Klausner and Bass) suggest that he switched to a phonetic system (one based on the sound components of language). Other accounts dispute this, and claim that Sequoyah began with a pictographic or ideographic system (wherein symbols look like what they represent, e.g., O for "sun").
In any event, Sequoyah had his work cut out for him. Ordinarily, societies acquire writing by borrowing from or elaborating upon an existing system. Viewed in this light, most writing systems are acquisitive, evolutionary, and more often than not, borrowed. Old Persian cuneiform is an early example; so too, the undocumented Korean, and more recent Cree. But, as Daniels acknowledges, "the most celebrated, and the earliest that was observed by interested outsiders" is Cherokee (579). "Interested outsiders" are the key words here. In 1823 John Pickering - a "noted philologist" according to Willard Walker and James Sarbaugh - set out to create a Cherokee writing system by building on an earlier orthography he had developed for writing native languages. The idea was that the Cherokee system should avoid the "monolingual bias that occurred when European language speakers tried to record the pronunciation of Indian language sounds . . ." (Kalter 331). Pickering later abandoned his grammar, in part because it was moot - the American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions had elected to adopt Sequoyah's syllabary (Walker and Sarbaugh 91nlO). In working out his system, Pickering relied on his apprentice David Brown, a student at the Cornwall School for native missionaries. And Brown, in turn, was a classmate of Elias Boudinot and John Ridge (whose son, John Rollin Ridge, was a Cherokee writer). Elias Boudinot and Samuel Austin Worcester collectively produced the first Cherokee-language newspaper and printed materials. Moreover, it was Samuel Worcester who designed the Cherokee type font which was ultimately used to print the "alphabet." Worcester was far from fluent; he seems to have relied extensively on Boudinot, a native speaker.
In other words, a white missionary, working in tandem with his translator, was responsible for carrying the syllabary into print.

</file>

<file= AmE06_G29>

An allegedly revolutionary practice that threatened to overturn hierarchies of taste, social class, and race (and which many likened to Bolshevism), jazz resisted being confined to the musical field. Throughout the 1920s it was consistently charged with either invigorating or demeaning virtually all the arts, from theatre, poetry, and dance to those, like painting or sculpture, that seemed to have little or nothing to do with music. Given the extraordinary proliferation and range of theatrical activities during the 1920s, theatre was arguably the most deeply impacted among music's sister arts. The most popular theatrical entertainments of the period, vaudeville and musical comedy, quickly accommodated themselves to and literally cashed in on the new musical craze by using jazz as scoring or underscoring for songs, dances, and scenes. But even the so-called legitimate theatre was not deaf to syncopated dance music, and jazz often featured in more serious plays (e.g., Eugene O'Neill's Diff'rent [1920], J. Hartley Manners's The National Anthem [1922], and George S. Kaufman and Marc Connelly's Beggar on Horseback [1924]) as the emblem of a new and dangerous "Age of the Young" and of an out-of-control modernity. I will argue here that jazz - as style, emblem, inspiration, metaphor, and performance practice - was a source of tremendous anxiety for playwrights and critics intent on legitimizing theatre as an elite cultural practice. Daring to lay claim to the "Soul of America," it was, in fact, decisive in separating a newly emerging literary theatre from its illegitimate theatrical cousins.
   One cannot begin to analyze the function of jazz, however, without examining its contested identity. Max Harrison, the writer of the entry on jazz in the New Grove Dictionary of Music and Musicians, throws up his hands at the very beginning of his essay: "Attempts at a concise - even a coherent - definition of jazz have invariably failed." Indeed, most writers on the subject could explain their position by paraphrasing Justice Potter Stewart's description of pornography: I don't know how to define it but I know it when I hear it. Even during the Jazz Age, jazz denoted so many different kinds of music, including many that now seem quite unrelated to what has been classified as jazz since World War II. Charles Hamm argues that during the 1920s there were three bodies of music called jazz. The first kind - and the only one considered jazz by virtually all postwar jazz critics but almost never heard by the vast majority of white Americans during the 1920s - is "jazz (and blues) performed by black musicians for black audiences." Recordings of this music, sometimes called hot jazz, were "marketed as 'race records' by small independent record companies beginning in 1920" and, being sold in black record stores, enjoyed little mass distribution. The artists in this group are the ones routinely cited as the first great jazz artists: King Oliver, Jelly Roll Morton, Bessie Smith, Louis Armstrong, and many others. The second type, and one that did not become prominent until the second half of the decade, is "jazz (and blues) performed by black musicians" like Cab Calloway and Duke Ellington "for white audiences" at the Cotton Club and other Harlem and South Side Chicago speakeasies. The third type, and the one that enjoyed wide distribution on recordings and the radio and signified jazz for almost all white Americans and Europeans, Hamm describes as "so-called jazz performed by white musicians for white audiences." This last category, sometimes called sweet jazz, was the subject of "virtually all writing on 'jazz'" during the 1920s and early 1930s, despite the fact, in the words of one knowing contemporary critic, that "the 'sweet' technique" is "hardly connected with true jazz save by its employment of saxophones and banjoes." Paul Whiteman, who "made sweet jazz the Established Order," was the best-known of a group that included other band leaders like Vincent Lopez, Ted Lewis, and Ben Selvin and (mostly Jewish) composers for Tin Pan Alley and Broadway like Irving Berlin, Jerome Kern, and George Gershwin.
   The crucial role of the popular theatre in appropriating, developing, and propagating jazz underlines the fact that there was significant overlap between jazz and theatre both performatively and institutionally. During Prohibition, jazz cabarets and nightclubs often would stage elaborate floor shows that patrons could watch (and participate in as social dancers). As William Howland Kenney notes, these speakeasies provided a highly theatricalized setting in which "new styles of personal liberation - clothes, insiders' slang, cigarettes, bootleg gin, marijuana (called 'gage'), sexual expressiveness, and interracial mingling" functioned "to add drama to the new music." Particularly in Chicago, Kenney reports, "cabaret floor shows . . . put musicians on display and focused increased attention on visual dimensions of musical performance." In fact, the strategy adopted "most often" by saloons in an attempt to camouflage the illicit sale of alcohol was to "upgrade the entertainment into a small vaudeville show." Turning jazz into a kind of theatre, these cabarets often featured chorus lines of dancers as well as nonmusical performers, including actors and comedians, and so represented "an adaptation" - and extension - "of vaudeville comedy to the night club."11
   This newly theatricalized jazz was much more closely aligned with popular theatre forms - and with Jewish songwriters, performers, and producers - than with literary comedies and dramas. Like vaudeville and musical comedy, in which it was regularly featured, jazz is a partly improvisatory practice that depends upon the skill and / or the inspiration of a performer stimulated by an eager audience. During the 1920s, jazz, vaudeville, and musical comedy were performance practices that, to borrow Pierre Bourdieu's words, satisfied "a deep-rooted demand" of "the popular audience . . . for participation" that the "formal experimentation" of the legitimate theatre "systematically disappoint[ed]." In vaudeville proper, orchestras routinely theatricalized jazz performance and undermined the distinction between music and theatre by surrounding "the orchestra with expensive cycloramas and sets" and incorporating "in the act a song story, scenic exploitation [sic], costume bit, singing numbers, dances, or other unusual features to put the act across."13
   The identification of jazz with vaudeville, revue, and musical comedy was so strong that as early as 1917, one commentator, searching for the etymology of the word "jazz," turned to a vaudevillian who noted that "the phrase 'Jaz [sic] her up' is a common one to-day in vaudeville." This association points to the fact that between World War I and the mid-1920s, vaudeville and cabaret were by far the most important and popular venues for jazz performance. In 1923, a writer for Metronome, an orchestra and band monthly, found more than seventy-five jazz orchestras playing in vaudeville. Throughout the 1920s, jazz - the exemplary urban art form - was regularly described as being centered in the theatre district, as the common turn of phrase, "the jazz-mongers of Broadway," suggests. And Broadway, with its glittering, seductive, and often tawdry entertainments, became a metonym for and emblem of jazz. Both were imagined as being the "expression of the times, of the breathless, energetic, super-active times in which we are living." As an indignant guardian of high culture tartly put it, "If New York City, or rather a segment situated on Broadway, is America, then jazz does represent the American soul." Given its many manifestations, guises, contexts, and performance venues, jazz thus represented the most significant form of cross-mediated performance in the 1920s: a form that undermined the autonomy of dance and concert music, cabaret, social dancing, vaudeville, revue, and narrative theatre. It was, in short, less a musical form than a practice that, both institutionally and ontologically, revealed the necessarily contingent nature of all performance practices. 
   Although the legitimate theatre eschewed improvisation and disdained work that sought merely to provide amusement, a handful of experimental plays, most notably John Howard Lawson's Processional (1925), subtitled A Jazz Symphony of American Life in Four Acts, used jazz as a metaphor and inspiration for innovations in both content and dramatic form. By turning jazz into drama, Lawson "endeavored . . . to reflect . . . the color and movement of the American processional as it streams about us," whose "rhythm is staccato, burlesque, [and] carried out by a formalized arrangement of jazz music." Although Lawson stopped short of championing the form, Processional divided critics and perplexed audiences, running for only ninety-six performances despite the imprimatur of the prestigious (and noncommercial) Theatre Guild. Heywood Broun praised the play, but had to admit that he had "seldom seen first-nighters more mystified and annoyed." Critics who disliked it, meanwhile, made no attempt to disguise their contempt for the "oleaginous conserve of tommyrot entitled 'Processional'" (a play that "suffers from convulsions" and "writhe[s] all over the stage") as well as the "consummate hypocrisy" of the Guild for "pretending that this ludicrous and incoherent inanity had some deep significance."21
   For artists and critics less committed than Lawson to innovation and political radicalism, both jazzed theatre and theatricalized jazz remained an even more troubling and controversial cultural performance. This was especially true for a legitimate stage attempting to survive the insurgence of a lowbrow art form (cinema), separate itself decisively from a jazzed-up vaudeville, absorb and Americanize a vital European modernism, boost its prestige in relation to its many illegitimate cousins, and strive "seriously to become an art rather than a pleasant pastime." Playwrights in pursuit of cultural and symbolic capital often positioned their work by constructing disagreeable characters who loved jazz and sympathetic ones who held it in contempt. Jazz thereby served as the practice on which an emergent, would-be highbrow, literary theatre looked with horror and dismay in part because it was providing the substance and style for the theatrical genres from which this new theatre was most eager to distance itself, vaudeville and musical comedy. It provided the fulcrum that divided a heroic, universalizing modernism from its popular, mongrelized other. In many plays, like The National Anthem, jazz was constructed as the sign of decadence, moral turpitude, standardization, hypocrisy, and cultural miscegenation. Playwrights like Eugene O'Neill - who, in Diff'rent, associates jazz with one of his most "revoltingly incongruous" and deceitful women characters - were loath to associate their plays with jazz writing or a music that emerged from African Americans and the working classes. And the more conservative arbiters of culture applauded the legitimate theatre's studied dissociation from jazz. One critic characterized jazz as "musical rowdy" and maintained that it "occupies the same relation to the art of music that 'burlesque' (on the stage) does to the 'legitimate drama.'" Another expressed great relief that O'Neill was pursuing a heroic "dream" of an imperial America personified by a determined and powerful "young conqueror" striding across the globe rather than a jazz-loving, "strapping swaggerer . . . doing the 'Charleston.'" "Jazz has nothing in common" with the work of an O'Neill, which is "an expression of the groping and the real struggle of the nation" toward "a grandeur and wisdom to which jazz will forever be blind." 
Jewish Jazz
Discourses on jazz from the 1920s to the present have consistently agonized over questions of race, ethnicity, and social class. Indeed, jazz - and all that has been labeled jazz - remains, with the possible exception of minstrelsy, the most heavily contested musicological subject. While minstrelsy has proven the most embarrassing, and in the main repressed cultural remnant of chattel slavery, jazz has as a rule been regarded (see Hamm, above) as an African American musical genre that resists (and triumphs over) oppression. The racially charged nature of these discourses - and the enormousness of the cultural stakes - have ensured that race, as Nicholas M. Evans points out, has tended from the 1920s to the present "to be the lightning rod for the most emotionally and ideologically charged arguments," separating those historians (e.g., Stanley Crouch, LeRoi Jones [Amiri Baraka], Albert Murray, and Wynton Marsalis) who view jazz as essentially black from those (e.g., Gene Lees, Richard Sudhalter, James Lincoln Collier, and William Howland Kenney) who argue that it is essentially hybridized and multiracial.  Yet, as Evans argues, even those historians, like Sudhalter, who proselytize for the multiracial character of jazz end up falling back upon essentialized racial categories and emphasizing "white and black cultures' separateness."

</file>

<file= AmE06_G30>

These courses attracted faculty from a variety of disciplines. They were often, perhaps usually, team taught. And they were enriched by formal presentations in which a member of the course staff presented particular texts or problems to his or her colleagues. Western Civilization - or as Columbia called it, Contemporary Civilization - became something like a way of life. It also served, at Columbia, as the foundation for the Humanities Colloquium - an intensive, two-year study of great books, in which a staff that included Jacques Barzun and Lionel Trilling debated, before their students, the virtues of historical and non-historical approaches to texts. Crane Brinton's legendary course on Men and Ideas at Harvard pushed large numbers of students in another direction, towards the question of how ideas generated action. The existence of these courses meant that students from many, though hardly all, of the better colleges and universities were prepared, even conditioned, to see intellectual history as a vital field - one which they found it easy to enter, and whose practices came to them with a feeling of naturalness. Historians whose own careers took radically different directions in the 1950s and 1960s have paid eloquent tribute, in recent years, to the interdisciplinary surveys of western civilization that set them on the path to scholarship.
The history of ideas, moreover, was an established field of scholarly inquiry long before Lovejoy published his first articles on evolution in Popular Science Monthly, or the first new historians began setting up their courses in the field. Donald Kelley has traced, in a powerful and erudite book, the ancestry of the history of ideas - a chain of scholars, philosophers, scientists, and social reformers that leads all the way back from the new research universities of the nineteenth century to classical antiquity. Greek philosophers drew up doxographical histories of philosophy, painted polemical portraits of their predecessors and occasionally pursued systematic inquiries into the growth of astronomy or anatomy. Medieval scholars drew up genealogies and - in the remarkable case of Roger Bacon - mounted formal inquiries into the reasons why certain older thinkers had produced solid and useful results. Renaissance humanists compiled what they called "literary histories" - rich, complex, and sometimes perversely polemical inquiries into the history of disciplines from history itself to astronomy and mathematics. Francis Bacon found this form of humanistic scholarship so stimulating that he urged his readers to compile, working century by century, histories of the different arts and disciplines and the conditions that had made them flourish or decline. In the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries, finally, histories of philosophy, science, literature, and social thought became a central occupation of thinkers as influential as Victor Cousin and Hippolyte Taine, and the writing of proper histories often came to be seen as a prerequisite for the larger reform of intellectual life.
These enterprises varied radically in character and method. Even in nineteenth-century Germany, perhaps the west's locus classicus for the development of historical approaches to all forms of knowledge, the formal history of philosophy took root only gradually, as university teaching began to adopt the seminar method of close collective reading of older texts, and flourished in a wild variety of forms, many of them devoid of the Hegelian inspiration once thought to have made philosophy historical. Much work in this field went on in lecture-rooms rather than studies, moreover, as philosophers offered formal courses on the history of their subject, which have only begun to be studied. The same is true for any number of other disciplines that became articulately self-conscious, in the nineteenth century, from philology to physics, and whose disciplinary histories in many cases have not yet attracted their historians. Nonetheless it is striking to see how widely the history of ideas was written and taught, long before anyone thought of including it in the discipline of history.
In the last sunny decades of nineteenth-century liberal culture, histories of ideas - as well as histories of philosophy - flourished widely, especially in the English-speaking world. John Draper and Andrew Dickson White used history to examine the millennial conflict between science and religion, in massive books that retain a certain relevance now. As the liberal consensus neared its strange death, the history of ideas became a central concern of British intellectuals like the Carlyles, Leslie Stephen, and J.B. Bury, whose books had no rivals on the Continent. In the years when modernity seemed to have created a civilization and technology that would carry all before it, the history of the ideas that underpinned the modern world came to seem as urgent as the history of battles and constitutions - perhaps more so, for a wide, non-scholarly readership. Momigliano, writing in the 1970s, recalled that as a student in the 1920s, he had regarded the history of ideas as a British specialty. He found it puzzling, accordingly, that when he reached Oxford in 1939, "It was enough to mention the word 'idea' to be given the address of the Warburg Institute." By the outbreak of World War II, intellectual historians like Herbert Butterfield were isolated, at least among the British professionals. A generation before the intellectual map had looked quite different. When reforming American advocates of a "new history" like Charles Beard began their campaign against the political narratives of an older, positivist historiography, after the First World War, they imported these excellent foreign products - as Beard did when he reprinted Bury's history of the idea of progress with a long, admiring introduction. 
The sense that the history of ideas formed part of a progressive approach to history and society - and the effort to use the method to work out not only, as Lovejoy did, the development of metaphysics and aesthetics, but also the paths by which ideas had shaped, and could reshape, the political and social order - did not dissipate with the reform currents of the early 1920s. Writers like Vernon Parrington and, later on, the brilliant outsider Richard Hofstader, used the history of ideas to understand where  energies came from - and to trace the fault lines within the world of the American intellect. As late as the 1960s, courses on intellectual history at major American universities - for example, the famous survey courses offered by George Mosse at the University of Wisconsin - still served as primary rallying points for hundreds of students critical of the existing order in society and the state - even when, as in Mosse's case, the content of the course remained solidly in the realm of ideas, and the instructor resolutely intent on revealing to his students the flaws and contradictions that made their own programs useless. To that extent, the relation between intellectual history and social protest was not simple, or unidirectional, even in the heyday of social history.
Three more existing streams of thought and practice flowed into the history of ideas and helped to fertilize the soil its practitioners cultivated. One was decidedly foreign. From the middle of the nineteenth century onwards, German scholars had experimented with a range of new models for the study of cultures. Jacob Burckhardt and his many disciples and critics devised new ways to portray past cultures as wholes, offering new contexts for the study of past ideas and thinkers. Aby Warburg and his followers created equally novel ways to trace traditions over the centuries of western history, following the disappearances and reappearances of symbols and explicating their transformations, and their larger meanings, in a richly interdisciplinary way. In the same period, a range of medievalists in and outside Germany turned Burckhardt's weapons against him, creating histories of the medieval centuries that, like Burckhardt's history of the Renaissance, emphasized the realm of culture and ideas even as they argued that medieval men and women had been far more realistic, less shackled to authority, than Burckhardt realized.
These debates moved to North America and settled comfortably there even before the nineteenth century ended. Pioneering medievalists like Charles Homer Haskins and Lynn Thorndike attacked the same questions, wielding vast reserves of new material drawn from European libraries and archives. The Journal of the History of Ideas provided, among other things, a platform for the debate and pursuit of these already existing issues - one that soon came to be so crowded as to resemble The Raft of the Medusa rather than a peaceful School of Athens. Of all American enterprises in the history of ideas, Thorndike'sHistory of Magic and Experimental Science proved perhaps the largest in scale. It drew its intellectual inspiration directly from the European debate about the Middle Ages and the Renaissance.
The stream of new methods and materials from abroad continued to grow, moreover, during the early decades of Lovejoy's career, as European scholarship moved in new directions and then, more rapidly, as European scholars began to make their forced translatio studii to the United States. Friedrich Meinecke offered new models for understanding the history of major intellectual formations like historicism. Werner Jaeger showed how to write the biography of a great thinker, Aristotle, who had left no letters and the development of whose mind could be established only by internal analysis of his texts. In the 1950s and 1960s, younger members of these foreign schools, uprooted from their German homes by Hitler, transformed the humanities in America as they themselves were transplanted into them - or at least came to write in English. Erwin Panofsky made a version of Warburg's method elegantly accessible to generations of young scholars, by no means all of them in art history. His former colleagues at the Warburg Institute, now reestablished in London, developed their method in a whole series of different ways, not without engaging in polemics. Meanwhile Felix Gilbert and other German émigrés offered a sharper, more archival form of Meinecke's method to students of both European and American ideas, and Hans Baron brilliantly deployed the methods of the Leipzig school of cultural history to transform the study of Renaissance humanism. Leo Spitzer and Erich Auerbach imparted different versions of German philology and hermeneutics to American graduate students. Jaeger's severely analytical method of intellectual biography, with its fierce concentration on finding the inconsistencies and fissures in apparently finished, coherent works, gave Gilbert, Baron, Hexter, and many others a new way to study Machiavelli, whose work became a seedbed for new methods. These scholars saw the redating and decomposition of classic and apparently coherent texts like The Prince and The Discourses as a way to transform what seemed to be fissures and contradictions - like the intense, brain-exploding contrast between the pragmatic absolutism and immoralism of the Prince and the republicanism of theDiscourses - into the evidence for intellectual development, usually in response to particular outside circumstances, biographical and political. Hexter famously applied the same method to Thomas More, and gradually the intellectual biography - an approach that fused a concentration on context and development with close attention to the texts that had formed the center of past intellectuals' lives - established itself as a standard approach, distinct from the straight biography of an intellectual and rooted in the study of texts. The stream of models and stimuli from abroad never dried up. Even Great Britain - which no longer saw itself, in the 1950s, as friendly to the history of ideas - harbored the brilliant Isaiah Berlin, who had more pupils and disciples in the United States than at home, as well as younger scholars like John Burrow, whose 1966 Evolution and Society: A Study in Victorian Social Theory became a model for American historians of social thought.
In the same years, the massive programs of translation and paperback publication supported by the Bollingen Foundation and the new publishers of upscale paperbacks, above all Harper, made the work of these scholars, and some of their teachers, accessible to a broad American public. Momigliano recalled that he realized, soon after arriving at University College London, that the most distinguished and penetrating intellectual historians within the institution were the historians of science, scholars like Michael Polanyi whose insights did not derive from formal training as historians and who did not teach in the department of history. Disciplinary boundaries were lower in the United States than in Great Britain - low enough that students, as well as faculty members, could often see over them.

</file>

<file= AmE06_G31>

Jack, as his family and friends called him, must have been an appealing child despite the severe inward cast of his right eye and his forward-jutting jaw. There is a sketch portrait of him at about the age of twenty (illustration 1) that makes it easy to imagine the child with a twisted face smoothed over by a healthy skin, surprising, ironic in its forecast, cute. He was touching to older folk, the favorite of his father and his schoolmaster, and in his teens of the Scottish philosopher Andrew Baxter.
Jack came from a wealthy family that, to use our modern terms, was middle class but upwardly mobile. He once described himself as "a private gentleman ... of inferior, but independent condition," and he said candidly that his father was "in trade," that tag which for centuries has limited the ambitions of what then was called "the middling sort."
His mother, nee Sarah Heaton, was the daughter and heiress of such a middle-class man, the successful proprietor of a tannery. Her fortune enabled her husband to buy Hoxton Square on the north edge of the City of London, an area inhabited largely by Presbyterians. She had been reared a Presbyterian and would remain so all of her life. Presbyterians and Quakers and other Protestant sects outside the Church of England were recognized in English law as Dissenters, deprived of the right to hold most public offices but free to worship in their own chapels, to labor, to engage in business, and, if they had the qualification, to vote. The tastes of Sarah Heaton Wilkes were cultivated, and she owned bronze and marble statues of Greek mythical figures as well as religious and decorative paintings. It was risky to cross her. She once took her daughter to BowChurch, perhaps for a wedding or baptism, for she did not normally go there. Unable to find a seat in the crowded church, she asked a lady of higher social rank than she if she would mind sharing her box, for there were no pews at that time, only boxes containing seats assigned to particular families. When the lady refused, she went home and wrote her an excoriating letter: "I was astonished at so unpolite a refusal! But why should I soften the expression? ... No! it will bear a more severe reflection ... that all haughty and assuming airs is most repugnant to the mild and benevolent genius of our religion." But this earliest of her few surviving letters is no key to her personality. She was a woman of cardinal virtues, loyal to her family and protective of them without dominating them. But she was strong. Her usual place of worship was a little Presbyterian chapel in Carter Lane within the shadow of the great dome of St. Paul's Cathedral.
Jack's mother was content with the social status into which she had been born, but his father was not. Israel Wilkes worshiped in the established Church of England, though he had been reared a Presbyterian. He was well educated by the standards of a day when university degrees were required of no one except clerics and professionals, but looked to a mastery of liberal arts and classical languages acquired at secondary schools or at the hands of private tutors. Israel was wealthy, having inherited from his father and uncle a prosperous distillery that stood behind theChurch of St. John of the Cross and fronted on James Street. In time, he bought or built the house at the other end of the distillery, fronting on St. John's Square. He did not grow rich by selling gin to the poor, for that dangerous drink was made in the back rooms of almost every tavern. But he was a little ashamed of his business and sometimes gave it out that he was a brewer of beer. He kept a coach and four and paid a coachman, a groom, and three or four other servants. He has been said to have opened his house to bon vivants and artists and literary people, though their identities have not been established.
The eldest son, also named Israel, turned out to be a restless youth of mediocre talents who squandered his father's fortune in failed trading ventures. The third son, named Heaton for his mother's family, was to take over the family business. But Jack, who came between these middle-class siblings, was singled out by his father to be a gentleman, to speak the English of a gentleman, to be a scholar and a man of leisure, to wear a wig and to carry a sword. Accordingly, on Sundays his father took him to the Anglican church of St. John of the Cross, which stood in the angle between Israel's house and his distillery.
There were three daughters. Sarah, the eldest child, turned out to be a disgruntled spinster who played little part in Jack's later life. Ann, the youngest, died in her teens of smallpox. Mary, the middle girl, a tomboy, would prove a bright, eccentric woman and outlive three husbands, heiress to the first two, cheated of her inheritance by the last.
Oddly, we cannot be certain in which year John Wilkes was born, for no birth record has been found for him or any of his siblings. They may have been baptized in Carter Lane chapel, but the registers for those years are lost. More likely the children were baptized at a home service, a common practice among dissenters. Very probably Jack was born on 17 October 1726, though in his maturity he habitually gave out that it was 1727. October the seventeenth is an Old Style date. When New Style became official in 1752 with the dropping of eleven days from the calendar so as to give Great Britain the same calendar as that used on the Continent, Jack's birthday became 28 October, the date on which his birth was always celebrated. He was christened John for the great uncle who had been his grandfather's partner in the family distillery.
Israel Wilkes's house was located in the part of London called Clerkenwell, the largest house in a new residential development, Jerusalem Court, soon to be renamed St. John's Square. It was a handsome brick house surrounded by a fence of iron palings standing next to St. John's church and looking southward across a grassy common to an ancient Gothic arch, St. John's Gate. The cloister of the priory of St. John had once stood here, but the stones had been cleared away to prepare the space for houses. Three medieval structures remained, the arch, the gatehouse next to it, and the church. They still may be seen, but the houses around the square are gone, and noisy Clerkenwell Road now cuts through the middle of an ugly space that had once been the fashionable, grassy Jerusalem Court. Jerusalem passage at the north end of the court led toClerkenwell Green, where children might play under the supervision of a servant, but to the south all was the bustle and hurry of the City of London. St. John's Gate itself was a beehive of activity.Edward Cave had a printing press in the gatehouse, where he published the celebratedGentleman's Magazine with an image of the gate on its masthead. There Samuel Johnson turned in his essays and his reports on the debates in the parliament of Lilliput. William Hogarth, the great painter and caricaturist, grew up there, for his father had a coffee shop in the gatehouse where the customers pored over the latest issues of the Gentleman's Magazine and other publications. There young David Garrick, who would become the greatest actor of his age, put on his first London performance, playing the lead in Henry Fielding's Mock Doctor on a contrived stage in Cave's printing shop, with printers and apprentices dragooned into reading the other parts. Might a boy with a cast eye have been in the audience?
Southward from the Gate all was commotion, the City of London, not greater London, but the ancient City, roughly defined by what remained of the medieval walls-the City distinct from Holborn and Westminster, the chartered "City of London," with its own laws and courts and rights, jealously guarded. Here was the world of manufacture and the Spitalfields weavers, the world of finance and the Royal Exchange, the world of business and the Guildhall, the Inns of Court (as the law colleges were called), the Old Bailey criminal court, the booksellers and printers in Fleet Street, the ships tied up at Wapping, the Protestant meetinghouses, and the magnificent Cathedral of St. Paul. Four hundred thousand persons were packed into the City, the area of which was equivalent to a single square mile, and in time most of them would become aware of John Wilkes, in time come to admire, even adore him, and in time to reward him for his sufferings. The word sufferings was widely used to describe Wilkes's four-year exile and two years in prison, but it must be said that he had a pretty good time during both.
Sarah Wilkes was determined not to have her sons educated in the decadent institutions of the rich. Israel was bent upon classical languages and literature. They reached a compromise: Jack and his two brothers were sent to a boarding school in Hertford run by a Presbyterian, John Worsley, who was also a classical scholar. Off the boys were packed, each as he reached the age of eight, to Hertford, to the castle at the top of the town, through a dry moat, up a set of stairs, into Tower House, an ancient fortification rising from the castle wall that had been revamped to make a residence and school for Mr. Worsley. Jack would live there for five years, not a lonely life, for he had his brothers and Worsley's boy, who was his friend. Mr. Worsley laid for Jack a foundation in Latin and Greek that would serve him well for the rest of his life. Days after he left the school, the master, brokenhearted to have lost such a pupil, wrote him a letter praising his "generous sentiments and that love of letters which I myself beheld the first dawnings of." For the rest of his life, Wilkes would regard himself as a man of letters and would attain no mean reputation as such. "Go on, dear youth," Mr. Worsley continued, "and prosper in your noble pursuits: and I pray that the giver of every good and perfect gift may not only succeed your endeavors after human knowledge and sound learning, but also enrich your mind with that heavenly wisdom which is still more excellent and valuable." Mr. Worsley was a clergyman as well as a classicist.
Jack's father, delighted with his progress and promise, decided to continue his education beyond that which he would give the other boys. He sent him to Thame, Oxfordshire, to be tutored by a friend, Matthew Leeson, preacher to a Presbyterian congregation. Israel was convinced that Mr. Leeson was a first-rate classical scholar, which he may well have been, but he was no typical Presbyterian. Late in life, he had taken up theology and was in revolt against the doctrines of the church. "He was continually poaching in dull volumes ... for some new heresy," Wilkes would later write.? About a year after Jack joined Leeson's family, Leeson announced to his congregation that he had become an Arian, that is, he did not believe in the divinity of Jesus or in the doctrines of original sin and redemption. His flock, as might be expected, turned him out.
Sarah and Israel Wilkes, wanting to be of help, introduced Mr. Leeson to a new convert to Presbyterianism whom Sarah had met at chapel, Mrs. Mary Mead, nee Sherbrooke, the widow of a wealthy grocer whose shop had been on London Bridge. Mrs. Mead lived in Red Lyon Square behind the church of St. Sepulchre in the old City.

</file>

<file= AmE06_G32>

In the first decade of the twentieth century, science initiated a second American revolution. A nation on horseback was soon transformed by the internal combustion engine, manned flight and a multitude of other inventions. These technological innovations quickly changed the lives of ordinary men and women. But simultaneously an esoteric band of scientists was creating an even more fundamental revolution. Theoretical physicists across the globe were beginning to alter the way we understand space and time. Radioactivity was discovered on March 1, 1896, by the French physicist Henri Becquerel. Max Planck, Marie Curie and Pierre Curie and others provided further insights into the nature of the atom. And then, in 1905, Albert Einstein published his special theory of relativity. Suddenly, the universe appeared to have changed.

Around the globe, scientists were soon to be celebrated as a new kind of hero, promising to usher in a renaissance of rationality, prosperity and social meritocracy. In America, reform movements were challenging the old order. Theodore Roosevelt was using the bully pulpit of the White House to argue that good government in alliance with science and applied technology could forge an enlightened new Progressive Era.

Into this world of promise was born J. Robert Oppenheimer, on April 22, 1904. He came from a family of first- and second-generation German immigrants striving to be American. Ethnically and culturally Jewish, the Oppenheimers of New York belonged to no synagogue. Without rejecting their Jewishness they chose to shape their identity within a uniquely American offshoot of Judaism - the Ethical Culture Society - that celebrated rationalism and a progressive brand of secular humanism. This was at the same time an innovative approach to the quandaries any immigrant to America faced - and yet for Robert Oppenheimer it reinforced a lifelong ambivalence about his Jewish identity.

As its name suggests, Ethical Culture was not a religion but a way of life that promoted social justice over self-aggrandizement. It was no accident that the young boy who would become known as the father of the atomic era was reared in a culture that valued independent inquiry, empirical exploration and the free-thinking mind - in short, the values of science. And yet, it was the irony of Robert Oppenheimer's odyssey that a life devoted to social justice, rationality and science would become a metaphor for mass death beneath a mushroom cloud.

Robert's father, Julius Oppenheimer, was born on May 12, 1871, in the German town of Hanau, just east of Frankfurt. Julius' father, Benjamin Pinhas Oppenheimer, was an untutored peasant and grain trader who had been raised in a hovel in "an almost medieval German village," Robert later reported. Julius had two brothers and three sisters. In 1870, two of Benjamin's cousins by marriage emigrated to New York. Within a few years these two young men - named Sigmund and Solomon Rothfeld - joined another relative, J. H. Stern, to start a small company to import men's suit linings. The company did extremely well serving the city's flourishing new trade in ready-made clothing. In the late 1880s, the Rothfelds sent word to Benjamin Oppenheimer that there was room in the business for his sons.

Julius arrived in New York in the spring of 1888, several years after his older brother Emil. A tall, thin-limbed, awkward young man, he was put to work in the company warehouse, sorting bolts of cloth. Although he brought no monetary assets to the firm and spoke not a word of English, he was determined to remake himself. He had an eye for color and in time acquired a reputation as one of the most knowledgeable "fabrics" men in the city. Emil and Julius rode out the recession of 1893, and by the turn of the century Julius was a full partner in the firm of Rothfeld, Stern & Company. He dressed to fit the part, always adorned in a white high-collared shirt, a conservative tie and a dark business suit. His manners were as immaculate as his dress. From all accounts, Julius was an extremely likeable young man. "You have a way with you that just invites confidence to the highest degree," wrote his future wife in 1903, "and for the best and finest reasons." By the time he turned thirty, he spoke remarkably good English, and, though completely self-taught, he had read widely in American and European history. A lover of art, he spent his free hours on weekends roaming New York's numerous art galleries.

It may have been on one such occasion that he was introduced to a young painter, Ella Friedman, "an exquisitely beautiful" brunette with finely chiseled features, "expressive gray-blue eyes and long black lashes," a slender figure - and a congenitally unformed left hand. To hide this deformity, Ella always wore long sleeves and a pair of chamois gloves. The glove covering her left hand contained a primitive prosthetic device with a spring attached to an artificial thumb. Julius fell in love with her. The Friedmans, of Bavarian Jewish extraction, had settled in Baltimore in the 1840s. Ella was born in 1869. A family friend once described her as "a gentle, exquisite, slim, tallish, blue-eyed woman, terribly sensitive, extremely polite; she was always thinking what would make people comfortable or happy." In her twenties, she spent a year in Paris studying the early Impressionist painters. Upon her return she taught art at Barnard College. By the time she met Julius, she was an accomplished enough painter to have her own students and a private rooftop studio in a New York apartment building.

All this was unusual enough for a woman at the turn of the century, but Ella was a powerful personality in many respects. Her formal, elegant demeanor struck some people upon first acquaintance as haughty coolness. Her drive and discipline in the studio and at home seemed excessive in a woman so blessed with material comforts. Julius worshipped her, and she returned his love. Just days before their marriage, Ella wrote to her fiancé: "I do so want you to be able to enjoy life in its best and fullest sense, and you will help me take care of you? To take care of someone whom one really loves has an indescribable sweetness of which a whole lifetime cannot rob me. Good-night, dearest."

On March 23, 1903, Julius and Ella were married and moved into a sharp-gabled stone house at 250 West 94th Street. A year later, in the midst of the coldest spring on record, Ella, thirty-four years old, gave birth to a son after a difficult pregnancy. Julius had already settled on naming his firstborn Robert; but at the last moment, according to family lore, he decided to add a first initial, "J," in front of "Robert." Actually, the boy's birth certificate reads "Julius Robert Oppenheimer," evidence that Julius had decided to name the boy after himself. This would be unremarkable - except that naming a baby after any living relative is contrary to European Jewish tradition. In any case, the boy would always be called Robert and, curiously, he in turn always insisted that his first initial stood for nothing at all. Apparently, Jewish traditions played no role in the Oppenheimer household.

Sometime after Robert's arrival, Julius moved his family to a spacious eleventh-floor apartment at 155 Riverside Drive, overlooking the Hudson River at West 88th Street. The apartment, occupying an entire floor, was exquisitely decorated with fine European furniture. Over the years, the Oppenheimers also acquired a remarkable collection of French Postimpressionist and Fauvist paintings chosen by Ella. By the time Robert was a young man, the collection included a 1901 "blue period" painting by Pablo Picasso entitled Mother and Child, a Rembrandt etching, and paintings by Edouard Vuillard, André Derain and Pierre-Auguste Renoir. Three Vincent Van Gogh paintings - Enclosed Field with Rising Sun (Saint-Remy, 1889), First Steps (After Millet) (Saint-Remy, 1889) and Portrait of Adeline Ravoux (Auvers-sur-Oise, 1890) - dominated a living room wallpapered in gold gilt. Sometime later they acquired a drawing by Paul Cézanne and a painting by Maurice de Vlaminck. A head by the French sculptor Charles Despiau rounded out this exquisite collection.*

Ella ran the household to exacting standards. "Excellence and purpose" was a constant refrain in young Robert's ears. Three live-in maids kept the apartment spotless. Robert had a Catholic Irish nursemaid named Nellie Connolly, and later, a French governess who taught him a little French. German, on the other hand, was not spoken at home. "My mother didn't talk it well," Robert recalled, "[and] my father didn't believe in talking it." Robert would learn German in school.

On weekends, the family would go for drives in the countryside in their Packard, driven by a gray-uniformed chauffeur. When Robert was eleven or twelve, Julius bought a substantial summer home at Bay Shore, Long Island, where Robert learned to sail. At the pier below the house, Julius moored a forty-foot sailing yacht, christened the Lorelei, a luxurious craft outfitted with all the amenities. "It was lovely on that bay," Robert's brother, Frank, would later recall fondly. "It was seven acres . . . a big vegetable garden and lots and lots of flowers." As a family friend later observed, "Robert was doted on by his parents. . . . He had everything he wanted; you might say he was brought up in luxury." But despite this, none of his childhood friends thought him spoiled. "He was extremely generous with money and material things," recalled Harold Cherniss. "He was not a spoiled child in any sense."

By 1914, when World War I broke out in Europe, Julius Oppenheimer was a very prosperous businessman. His net worth certainly totaled more than several hundred thousand dollars - which made him the equivalent of a multimillionaire in current dollars. By all accounts, the Oppenheimer marriage was a loving partnership. But Robert's friends were always struck by their contrasting personalities. "He [Julius] was jolly German-Jewish," recalled Francis Fergusson, one of Robert's closest friends. "Extremely likeable. I was surprised that Robert's mother had married him because he seemed such a hearty and laughing kind of person. But she was very fond of him and handled him beautifully. They were very fond of each other. It was an excellent marriage."

Julius was a conversationalist and extrovert. He loved art and music and thought Beethoven's Eroica symphony "one of the great masterpieces." A family friend, the anthropologist George Boas, later recalled that Julius "had all the sensitiveness of both his sons." Boas thought him "one of the kindest men I ever knew." But sometimes, to the embarrassment of his sons, Julius would burst out singing at the dinner table. He enjoyed a good argument. Ella, by contrast, sat quietly and never joined in the banter. "She [Ella] was a very delicate person," another friend of Robert's, the distinguished writer Paul Horgan, observed, ". . . highly attenuated emotionally, and she always presided with a great delicacy and grace at the table and other events, but [she was] a mournful person."

Four years after Robert's birth, Ella bore another son, Lewis Frank Oppenheimer, but the infant soon died, a victim of stenosis of the pylorus, a congenital obstruction of the opening from the stomach to the small intestine. In her grief, Ella thereafter always seemed physically more fragile. Because young Robert himself was frequently ill as a child, Ella became overly protective. Fearing germs, she kept Robert apart from other children. He was never allowed to buy food from street vendors, and instead of taking him to get a haircut in a barber shop Ella had a barber come to the apartment.

Introspective by nature and never athletic, Robert spent his early childhood in the comfortable loneliness of his mother's nest on Riverside Drive. The relationship between mother and son was always intense. Ella encouraged Robert to paint - he did landscapes - but he gave it up when he went to college. Robert worshipped his mother. But Ella could be quietly demanding. "This was a woman," recalled a family friend, "who would never allow anything unpleasant to be mentioned at the table."

Robert quickly sensed that his mother disapproved of the people in her husband's world of trade and commerce.

</file>

<file= AmE06_G33>

One evening in late December, sometime around 1820, Henry Ward Beecher trudged through the snow, returning home from running an errand for his parents. Exactly how old he was he couldn't say, but he was still a chubby little boy, with wide gray eyes set above apple red cheeks. As he passed up the long town common in the center of the village, he was surprised to see Litchfield's little brown Episcopalian church lit up like a beacon in the early darkness. 
 
Henry was far too young to follow the fine theological distinctions his father used to separate the good Protestants from the bad Protestants, but of this he was sure: The Episcopalians were on the bad side. He needed no other proof than the fact that they didn't attend the white-steepled church where his father, the Reverend Lyman Beecher, preached every Sunday. In truth, God and Lyman Beecher were so intertwined in the little boy's mind that he did not quite grasp that Episcopalianism was a rival religion, he later recalled, "for I supposed there was no other religion except that which my father looked after." 
 
Henry was irresistibly drawn to the open door of the church, and as he peered in he was shocked to find candles blazing at every window; boughs of spruce, pine, and arborvitae twined around the pews; and a choir singing blissfully about the birth of Christ. He had never seen such a spectacle, certainly not in his father's austere meetinghouse, and he could not imagine what it meant. 
 
Although he did not know it then, this dazzling vision would be Henry's only taste of Christmas as a child. Christmas "was not known in the house of my father, for he was a Puritan of the Puritans," Henry said years later. "I never heard of Santa Claus when I was a boy. I never hung up a stocking. I feel bad about it to this day."(1)
 
When Henry was a boy, his faith in his father was so deeply ingrained that it never occurred to him to ask why they did not celebrate Christmas. If he had, Lyman's answer would have been unequivocal. As an orthodox Calvinist, Lyman Beecher interpreted the Bible literally, as solid fact, and there was nothing in the Scriptures to suggest that Christ was born on December 25. And even if there were, the day would be an occasion for solemn prayer, not sensual frivolity. Why, the Beechers didn't even celebrate their own birthdays. 
 
If the Episcopalians chose to delude themselves about Christ's birth that was one thing, as far as Lyman was concerned, but this business of filling the church with decadent appeals to the senses - with music, gaudy decorations, and gifts - was a sneaky attempt to lure the good Christians of Connecticut from the true faith of the Puritan fathers. Lyman had no patience for newfangled notions of religious tolerance or the separation of church and state. Episcopalians, Unitarians, Catho-lics - Lyman lumped them together with atheists, drunkards, thieves, and Jeffersonian Democrats, declaring each one a force of deviltry to be fought tooth and nail.
Despite his harsh dogma, Henry's father was not a cruel man. Those who knew the famous Reverend Beecher only by rumor or from reading his sensational fire-and-brimstone sermons were often surprised to find that in person he was warm and witty, fiercely intelligent, and deeply compassionate. When he invoked the terrors of the devil and the terrible judgment of God's law, it was not out of perversity but because he was truly heartbroken that, as he saw it, so many "immortal souls are sleeping on the brink of hell."(2)
 
Lyman's devotion to God was rivaled only by his devotion to his children, and like any good parent, he wanted them to be happy. But in this age before modern medicine, when many families in New England lost at least one child to the grave, he was tortured by the fear that his children would be suddenly swept away by death before he could bring them to God. If they felt deprived by missing such pleasures as Christmas, Lyman was more than willing to trade their happiness on earth to secure their eternal happiness in heaven. 
 
That cold Christmas Eve, Henry's small heart swelled with conflicting emotions as he "stood wistful, and with a vague curiosity, looking in, and wondering what sort of folks these Episcopal Church people were." He would have liked nothing better than to be in the middle of such gaiety and excitement. Yet even at this young age, he found it impossible to shake his father's teachings. He turned away from the church and headed home, with a "feeling of mixed wonder and pity" for those people who dwelled so far outside his father's sphere.(3)
 
This complex constellation of feelings colored every corner of Henry's childhood. He idolized his father and yearned desperately for Lyman's love and approval, yet every natural impulse in him craved forbidden pleasures. He longed to be like his older brothers and sisters, who seemed so easily to meet the high standards of Lyman and his fearsome God. But no matter how afraid he was of hell and how hard he tried to get into heaven, his desire for earthly happiness kept getting in the way. 
 
Twenty-five years would pass before Henry would begin to question seriously his father's opinion on this or any other matter. When he did, however, he quickly made up for lost time, tossing out his father's beliefs by the bushel. By then Henry was becoming a wealthy, worldly man who shamelessly indulged his newly acquired tastes for European travel, velvet jackets, sumptuous rugs, and expensive art, spending enormous sums of money on gifts for his family and friends. Before long he would even give up his belief in hell itself. 
 
But even when he succumbed to the Victorian craze for Christmas, celebrating it at home and in his church with all the merry trimmings, the holiday never really took hold in him. What he had yearned for all those years ago was not toys or Santa Claus, he recalled in old age - "A little love was what I wanted[.]"4 
 
Lyman Beecher had good reason to fear for his son's soul. Henry Ward Beecher was born in the summer of 1813, in the midst of one of the most terrifying, tumultuous periods in American history. From the distance of two centuries, we have mythologized the decades after the War for Independence as an Arcadian idyll of happy farmers and wise founding fathers. But the American Revolution was a genuine, bloody revolution, and, like all revolutions, it left a long wake of social, economic, and political upheaval. The future of the young Republic was still very much up in the air in 1813, creating an atmosphere of tremendous exhilaration and profound anxiety - a potent combination that would shape the emotional core of Henry Ward Beecher and his generation. 
 
Relations between the United States and England had remained strained and murky since the end of the war, growing even more complex as the French Revolution of 1789 and then the invasion of Europe by Napoleon Bonaparte's armies tore up old diplomatic alliances. Tensions peaked when England attempted to cut off sea trade between the United States and the Continent by attacking American ships and impressing almost a thousand American sailors, in essence kidnapping them and forcing them to work on British ships. Finally, in the summer of 1812, President James Madison declared war on the United Kingdom - the War of 1812 or the Second American Revolution, as it came to be known.
 
Eager to retake their former colony, the British invaded from all sides, from the Great Lakes in the north to the Gulf of New Orleans in the South. In the spring of 1813 eight British warships sailed into the waters of the Connecticut Sound, blockading the ports, burning wharves and trading ships, and forcing the city of New London to evacuate when the fleet tried to sail up the Connecticut River. By the summer of Henry's first birthday, the Redcoats were marching into Washington, D.C., where they burned the Capitol to the ground and pushed the Republic to the edge of bankruptcy. 
 
If any state should have stood firm in the midst of this chaos, it ought to have been Connecticut, the Land of Steady Habits, where clocks, granite, and schoolteachers were its chief exports, and the specter of Puritanism still stalked every crevice of its rocky hills. Long after the new federal constitution of 1788 guaranteed the separation of church and state at the national level, Connecticut proudly remained a theocracy, in which every household was taxed for support of the state-sanctioned Congregationalist Church. For more than two hundred years the same aristocratic network of merchants and ministers - "the Standing Order," as it was known - controlled both politics and society. Federalist in their politics and Calvinist in their religion, the Standing Order considered themselves the last bulwark against the "forces of innovation and democracy," which had led the country once again to bloodshed. So great was their animosity toward "Mr. Madison's war" that Connecticut seriously considered seceding from the Union - an idea that the citizens of the South would revive forty years later. 
 
But with the state's stony, overfarmed soil, burgeoning birthrate, and dependence on European trade, no place was hit harder than Connecticut by the anxiety and turmoil of the post-Revolutionary period. So many young people were fleeing the state for the rich bottomland of the Ohio frontier that the region was designated the "Western Reserve of Connecticut." A dangerous discontent was rising among those who remained at home. Out-of-wedlock births were skyrocketing, and drunkenness was a genuine epidemic, with the average citizen now drinking up to five gallons of cheap hard liquor a year. To top it off, a coalition of Jeffersonian Democrats, attorneys, atheists, workingmen, and "unofficial" religious sects was starting to agitate for an end to the old Standing Order. To many folks it seemed as if Lucifer was loose upon the land. 
 
But Connecticut Yankees were a wily, peculiar breed, according to early American folklore, with a slippery shrewdness that could confound even Satan himself. They were filled with contradictions - in turn slyly funny and profoundly grave, aggressively innovative and doggedly conservative, "a rare combination of philosopher and fighter," as Frederick Law Olmsted once remarked.(5) At the same time, they were absolutely, infuriatingly, convinced of their own superiority, and obsessed with converting the world to their way of thinking. In a contest of wit and will, the devil and the Connecticut Yankee were considered nearly an even match. If there was any truth in this stereotype, it was sure to be found in Litchfield, Connecticut, and in the Beecher clan. 
 
Perched high up in the Berkshire hills, the village of Litchfield gloried in its paradoxical reputation as a bastion of both progressive intellectual culture and staunch religious orthodoxy - "half Hebrew theocracy, half ultra- democratic republic," as Lyman's daughter Harriet described it.(6) It possessed two claims to national fame: its outspoken minister, the Reverend Lyman Beecher, and its pioneering schools, Miss Sarah Pierce's Litchfield Female Academy, one of the nation's first serious schools for girls, and Judge Tapping Reeve's Litcfield Law School, the country's first school devoted solely to the study of the law. Together the two institutions attracted students from as far away as Ohio, South Carolina, Canada, and the West Indies, graduating scores of future congressmen, ambassadors, cabinet secretaries, and political wives, who extended the town's reputation to London and Paris. 
 
In June 1813 Litchfield looked much as it does today, laid out along four broad tree- lined streets that crossed to form a long, grassy town common. In its habits, however, it was more akin to an English colony than to contemporary America. Indeed, Litchfield clung more tightly to the old ways than most New England towns. Villagers still rose with the sun and shut their houses up tight with the tolling of the nine o'clock bell. Many of the clothes were still homespun and homemade, and children went barefoot all days but Sunday.

</file>

<file= AmE06_G34>

Salem may never be more than a pleasant stop along the interstate highway that slices through the verdant prairie of south-central Illinois. Stretched out beyond the sign listing a population of eight thousand is the usual array of chain hotels and restaurants, gaudy gas stations and car washes, and tiny convenience stores. An imposing new Caterpillar rental and repair place suggests that the local economy is thriving, while twenty-six local churches compete to fill a set of loftier needs. Yet one can stroll down the main street of Salem in the middle of a weekday in summer without encountering more than a handful of residents. The nearest movie theater is down in Centralia, sixteen miles away. 
A different fate seemed possible in the 1850s, when Silas Bryan moved to town. The Ohio and Mississippi Railroad had just run tracks down Main Street, which made it possible to reach St. Louis in only ninety minutes--the same time it takes to drive the distance today. A Methodist women's college with two faculty members had recently opened its doors, and freshly built churches dotted the dirt streets of the newly incorporated town, the seat of Marion County. A few miles outside town, there lay ample deposits of bituminous coal, and three flour mills were unable to keep up with the demand of a growing population. "Salem is rapidly improving," boasted the local weekly in 1854, "and its elements of wealth and prosperity are now being rapidly developed." Soon it would be "a commanding point . . . where industry, sobriety, and honesty will surely thrive; where good health may be found, where long life may be enjoyed and where all the concomitants of competence and oppulence [sic] are inevitable." 
Silas Bryan's own ambitions dovetailed with those of his town. He was born in 1822, the eighth child of a farm family from Point Pleasant, a village that then lay inside Virginia's western border with Ohio. At the age of eighteen, he left a crowded log cabin to move westward in search of an education and, perhaps, a fortune. Harvesting crops and chopping wood, he slowly amassed enough credits to graduate, at the age of twenty-seven, from McKendree College, a Baptist institution in southern Illinois. He then followed a career path common to educated men in rural America during the middle of the nineteenth century: a few years of teaching school followed by reading law books and passing a bar examination. In 1851, Silas moved to Salem and opened a legal practice. A year later, he married Mariah Jennings--a reverent, resourceful, lovely young woman who was one of his former pupils. They built a small two-story frame house on Broadway Street--a five-minute walk from the county courthouse, which still marks the epicenter of Salem. 
Silas matured into a man of substance and an indispensable father of his town. He was a pioneering member of the provincial legal elite that did much to establish genteel society in the hinterland of midcentury America. Townspeople admired his legal skills and compensated him well--so well that in 1866 he was able to buy a 520-acre farm a mile outside of town with a deer park alongside it. Area voters, most of whom were Democrats, also elected him to a series of public offices. Over a twenty-year span, Silas served in the state senate, as a circuit court judge, and as a leading member of the committee that drafted a new Illinois constitution. 
And he never wavered from the gospel of the Democratic Party. It was a potent mixture of egalitarian principle and racist fear. Democrats in the nineteenth century often spoke as class warriors, American style. They preached that every small farmer and wage earner was equal to the rich and the well-born, and that the "producers" who fed, built, and clothed the nation deserved access to every opportunity society could offer. Yet Democrats also vowed to defend the livelihood, moral values, and families of the white majority against black Americans who refused to accept their servile destiny. As late as the 1870s, the party filled its campaign broadsides with images of "popeyed, electric-haired and slack-jawed" black men straight from the minstrel shows that were the most popular form of theater in nineteenth-century America. 
These ugly stereotypes served a populist purpose. Updating and hardening Jefferson's anti-elitist suspicions, Democrats accused their political enemies of shedding tears for unworthy blacks but sneering at the language and manners of the productive white majority. In the party's demonology, New England divines and schoolmarms mocked the Irish-born men and women who built and cleaned their houses, while speculators made quick fortunes manipulating markets instead of gaining a just reward after "years of patient industry." Good Democrats believed their task was to uphold the libertarian principles of the early Republic. The Democracy--as the party was commonly known--stood tall, a pillar of resistance to well-born zealots who wanted to shut off immigration, prohibit drinking and other private amusements, and increase the powers of the federal government to enrich their friends. 
Silas Bryan dated his own loyalty to the Democracy to boyhood memories of the 1828 election of Andrew Jackson, a stalwart defender of slavery. Later, as a Democratic partisan in Illinois, Silas Bryan endorsed the views of Stephen Douglas, who in his famous debate with Lincoln declared, "Our people are white people, our state is a white state, and we mean to preserve the race pure without any mixture with the negro." 
In the spirit of Old Hickory, Silas mingled a plebeian ethic with a fealty to racist assumptions. In 1856, he ran for the Illinois Senate against a opponent friendly to abolition. At one rally, Salem's "hardy yeomanry" filled the county courthouse to hear Bryan blast "the Black Republican press" for saying that he was friendly to Mormonism. In 1872, Silas ran for Congress on a platform that advocated inflating the money supply to rescue farmers and wage earners from the burden of debt. But a former general in the Union army narrowly defeated him and ended Silas Bryan's office-chasing career. The judge remained a prominent Democrat in southern Illinois and one of the richest men in town. 
However, Silas was never content with the trappings of material success. By all accounts, he embodied the virtues that nineteenth-century Americans summed up as "character." He was loyal and honest, industrious and pious--qualities prized by moral philosophers from the Hebrew prophets to Cotton Mather. And Silas attempted to apply these virtues to the life of his local community and state. When he died of a diabetic stroke in 1880, thousands filed by his casket as it lay in the county courthouse, and every business and school in Salem closed down for the afternoon. Obituary writers praised him for never wavering from his beliefs, for routinely feeding hobos who came to his door, and for kneeling in prayer three times a day, wherever he happened to be. Silas had specified the hymns to be sung and the Bible passages to be read at his funeral. Among the most memorable were verses from Paul's Second Epistle to Timothy: "For I am now ready to be offered, and the time of my departure is at hand. I have fought a good fight, I have finished my course, I have kept the faith." 
A year after his father's death, Will Bryan paid a florid tribute to character in the valedictory he gave at his college graduation: "If each day we . . . plant ourselves more firmly upon principles which are eternal, guard every thought and action, that it may be pure, and conform our lives more nearly to that Perfect Model, we shall form a character that . . . will bring success in this life and form the best preparation for that which is beyond." Others may have mouthed such nostrums without taking them too seriously; one biographer comments that the talk "was more suitable for an eighth-grade exercise than a college commencement." Yet like most Americans in the Gilded Age, both father and son were convinced that character underlay good governance as well as sound religion. 
Will Bryan spent his childhood in social tranquility, if not utter innocence. He was born on March 19, 1860, a year before the onset of the Civil War. More than fifteen hundred residents of Marion County served in the Union army; one out of every six succumbed from either wounds or disease. But no battles took place in the area, and the bloodshed left only a mild impression on local history--perhaps because many residents, like Silas Bryan, had migrated from the South and didn't favor the end of slavery and the rule of the Republican Party, which were prime consequences of the war. Neither Will's memoirs nor the little early correspondence of his that survives mentions the conflict that ruptured the nation. 
As a child, he was also unfamiliar with the afflictions and joys of an increasingly polyglot and industrial society. In Salem, Will probably met few people of a religion or ethnic group different from his. In 1860, a large majority of the thirteen thousand inhabitants of Marion County were native-born white Protestants of British or Irish heritage who farmed modest plots of corn and raised pigs and cattle. A few small mills finished lumber or ground cereals; by 1870, one lone shop in Salem turned out wooden plows and carriages. Schoolteachers and store clerks outnumbered day laborers and servants. Will could always find abundant rabbits and squirrels to hunt in the woods near his house. The Ohio and Mississippi Railroad was the only real sign that the machine age, with its yawning if mutable class divisions, had arrived on the prairies of southern Illinois. 
A biracial society and a religiously diverse one also lay off in the future. Although the slave state of Missouri began just seventy miles west of town, across the broad Mississippi, Silas Bryan and his neighbors seldom needed to police a color line. The antebellum Illinois constitution barred blacks from entering the state, and subsequent laws prescribed stiff penalties for hiring them. The year Abraham Lincoln was elected president, census takers found only nine black people living in all of Marion County. 
European immigrants were almost as rare. In the crowded port cities of the East, Know-Nothings raged against an influx of "Papist hordes." But Salem had just one small Catholic church, serving a few score of Irish and German residents. Tolerance toward whites from abroad seems to have come rather easily to town notables. Salem Democrats published campaign literature in German as well as English, and the town's religious life was relatively free of rancor. As a child, Will witnessed regular visits to his home by ministers of every denomination; Silas reserved a guest room for traveling divines, as well as politicians, and annually donated a load of hay to every local church, including the Catholic one. 
Mariah Bryan, at least in her son's eyes, was no less ethical and open-minded. Twelve years younger than Silas, she was his equal in character. "Mother was a very competent woman," recalled Will, "of rare native ability, of lofty ideals, and as devout as my father." She educated him at home until the age of ten, drawing lessons from the Bible, the McGuffey's Readers, and a geography text. She also held him responsible for feeding the farm animals and cutting the wood that heated their brick mansion. After he became famous, Will credited "this drudgery" for giving him the strength "to endure fatigue and withstand disease" during long periods on the road. 
The few surviving photos of Mariah Bryan, grimly posed in high collar and tight bun, betray no hint of her independent spirit. Raised as a Methodist, she refused for twenty years after marriage to "take her letter" to the local Baptist congregation in which Silas was a leading elder. Mariah was active in the local chapter of the WCTU and the Royal Templars, another temperance group, though the precise nature of her work is unknown.

</file>

<file= AmE06_G35>

There is a certain mystique to Richard Hofstadter. For nearly thirty years, the legend goes, he wrote the best books for the best publisher, won the best prizes, and taught in the best city, at the best school, at the best time. Among historians, The American Political Tradition, House of Knopf, Pulitzer, New York, Columbia University, and postwar America evoke a hazy attachment to a lost world of scholarly giants confident in the curative powers of the enlightened mind. This was a world raised in the collective memory of the Depression thirties, tormented by the anti-intellectualism of the McCarthy fifties, and rejected in the student wars of the radical sixties. Along the way, American society changed and historical writing changed, too. The older generation's preference for exploring the politics and ideas of elite personalities yielded before a broad canopy of studies focusing on race, class, and gender that revolutionized the academy's presentation of the past. Now, as the last great historians of the postwar period leave the scene, it seems particularly useful to candidly assess the greatest among them. Richard Hofstadter's career as a professional historian paralleled the heyday of twentieth-century liberalism (1933-68). Tracing his life reveals a complex tapestry of internal and external motivations that merged to produce a uniquely insightful mind, alert to the promise and perils of American democracy.
As the academy moved to the left, the nation's political culture lurched to the right, leaving liberals clinging to an ever-shrinking center. That Hofstadter, a symbol of the postwar consensus, is still commonly quoted in the pages of the nation's most popular general interest and political periodicals attests to his unusual hold on the public's imagination. More than three decades after his untimely death from leukemia at the age of fifty-four, legions of journalists and Internet bloggers routinely adopt social-psychological concepts - status anxiety, paranoid style, anti-intellectualism - popularized by Hofstadter. Among professional historians, only the distinguished Progressive thinkers Frederick Jackson Turner and Charles Beard and postwar notables C. Vann Woodward and Arthur Schlesinger, Jr., made as lasting impressions on their culture. Like these men, Hofstadter exhibited an enviable ability to connect with a large, critical, and politically conscious readership. He shared further their striking intellectual charisma and penchant for producing "relevant" scholarship that both reflected and shaped the course of twentieth-century liberal thought.
More than any of his peers, Hofstadter was sensitive to the increasingly urban and ethnic character of American life. Eager to embrace the future rather than commemorate the past, he rejected the conventional signposts that had for so long given direction to American civilization - a culture of capitalism, individualism, and isolationism. These established values, he knew, had long served Americans eager to define themselves as a Protestant, farming people. But the times no longer supported this vision - nineteenth-century liberalism collapsed in the 1930s. Its failure to solve either that decade's industrial crisis or the ideological schisms that prefaced fascism's war on the West and communism's hold in the East elicited from Hofstadter a sharp intellectual response. His criticisms frequently drew blood and aroused strong opposition from both conservatives and progressives. And they had good reason to worry. Unencumbered by deep roots in the native soil of his immigrant father's adopted country, Hofstadter enlisted the past to reveal the failings of a time-worn political tradition and by inference highlight the promise of what he believed was a more humane, cosmopolitan, and pluralistic postwar liberalism. Anglo-Saxonism and agrarianism were out. Ethnic diversity and modernity were in. As the old codes gave way, America's need for fresh heroes and new perspectives encouraged Hofstadter to rewrite its history as a prelude to moving its culture.
In the pages of his most popular books, Hofstadter championed a thoughtful and pragmatic social philosophy sympathetic to the welfare state reforms initiated by the New Deal. To describe his views as essentially relativistic, however, is to miss the point. Hofstadter respected history, took it on its own terms, and according to the merits of evidence, demonstrated an admirable responsiveness to rethinking earlier positions and revising earlier statements. His controversial experimentation with the social sciences in the 1950s came from an urgent desire to understand the past more fully and accurately, to expand historical inquiry beyond the economic interpretations favored by the previous generation in order to entertain a broader and yet more subtle scope of human activity. In tracing the psychology and emotional needs of his subjects, Hofstadter hoped to make history at once more complex and more clear. Above all, he delighted in lucid, unsentimental thinking and solid argumentation; indeed, they formed the foundations of his own work.
Social environment inevitably intrudes upon historical analysis, however, and so we must appreciate not simply the author's work, but also the public and personal circumstances that sustained and gave meaning to his efforts. "Before you study the history," one commentator advised, "study the historian. . . . The historian, being an individual, is also a product of history, and of society; and it is in this twofold light that the student of history must learn to regard him." Hofstadter referred to this paradox as the historian engagé - the participation of a scholar in the events he recorded. Involvement, no doubt, sacrificed a scientific pose, yet, as he knew from firsthand experience, it also provided the writer with a surfeit of fresh insights and new perspectives.
Upheaval too, can abet the imagination. Hofstadter's formative years were witness to the abrupt failure of long-established moral, intellectual, and political currents in American life. The fragility of the times undoubtedly shaped its survivors. Two world wars, the Great Depression, Nazi-Soviet pact, Holocaust, and early stirrings of the cold war served as the somber context for Hofstadter's first three decades. These turbulent days drew him into a deep and meaningful engagement with a radically altered postwar world. As the old liberalism expired in the twin failures of Hooverism and isolationism, he felt free to challenge the dominant outline of American history.
Identity played a vital and no less significant role in contextualizing Hofstadter's scholarship. Half Jewish, he was part of the first wave of intellectuals to incorporate secular, cosmopolitan, and universalist perspectives into his work; as such he served as a thoughtful agent of change in a nation rapidly moving away from its Protestant moorings. And this required a rather explicit break from the way American historians customarily handled their subject. Hofstadter found in earlier schools of historical writing a Wasp bias that favored Anglo-Saxon preferences over more nuanced and culturally diverse narratives. His rebellion against the dominant trends of prewar historiography occurred as others close to him remained committed to the inherited past. In 1942 Hofstadter's most influential graduate teacher, Merle Curti, announced his departure from Columbia's Teachers College to accept a position at the University of Wisconsin. Illinois native and Columbia colleague Allan Nevins regretted his friend's impending absence, but still congratulated Curti on a kind of moral upgrade of station by moving to the nation's heartland. He warmly extolled the virtues of Madison: "Your children will have a better community to grow up in than any in or near New York. The Middle West is our authentic America." Hofstadter never shared this opinion or the nostalgia that lay behind it. He came from Buffalo, an ethnically mixed city lacking a dominant identity, his sense of ambiguous geographical origins further sharpened by the fact that American historians traditionally came from New England or the Midwest. And this fueled his creativity. "I can never wholly identify with any collectivity," he remarked late in life. "This kind of marginality is by now a more general American experience; so today I am not an unrepresentative American."
Hofstadter's identification (and fascination) with the odd edges of his society merged with a heightened awareness of human weakness - including his own. A hypochondriac, Hofstadter, his son Dan recalls, was "a cheerful melancholic. What I mean is that he was not what is commonly known as a manic-depressive, but rather that his cheerfulness held his melancholia in solution, as salt may be dissolved in water." According to Columbia historian Walter Metzger, Hofstadter's temperamental divide informed his published work. "There was," he insisted, "a manic, slightly manic, slightly depressive quality in his writing style." Even a cursory reading of Hofstadter's books reveals that he frequently - and sometimes carelessly - overplayed his findings. This was in part a literary tactic designed to draw attention to his scholarship by garnishing it with a rhetorical bite that made it impossible to ignore. At a deeper level, however, it touched upon certain internal concerns that enlivened his work but chipped away at the scholar's quest for balance. In weak moments he lost sight of the American stage altogether and projected the great evil of his day - fascism - across the national landscape. His critical (and funny) portrait of Theodore Roosevelt in The American Political Tradition made TR into a kind Mussolini lite. In The Age of Reform he accentuated with too few qualifications the anti-Semitic side of midwestern populism, and in 1964 described the uber conservative Barry Goldwater's winning of the Republican Party nomination in language that evoked the coming to power of Adolf Hitler: it "gives him a strong position from which to form a new kind of political union, which will be based on jingoism, economic ultra-conservatism, and racial animosity." These examples - and there are many more - make it hard to escape the impression that beyond the playfulness there was a slightly erratic and perhaps slightly paranoid side of Richard Hofstadter that surfaced in his work.
The historian H. Stuart Hughes believed that Hofstadter's apparent premonition of an early death explained his anxieties. "One has the impression that there are some people who have a pessimistic attitude towards life and their own health that suggests that they are destined to die young, and I think this was true in Dick's case. There was a very deep running pessimism in his attitude." Dan Hofstadter adds that "the death of his mother and then of my mother, left him in a state, I believe, of unresolved discomforts, none of which were imagined - he was simply aware of his bad heredity and bad luck. He seemed at times to feel dogged by a malign providence." And this doubt spilled over into his scholarship. Reading Hofstadter, one quickly notes his lack of faith in the public's commitment to political pluralism and intellectual freedom. It was an astute rather than crippling judgment that aligned with his way of looking at the world. "Dick had a strong sense of human limitations and was not at all sentimental about human fate," noted William Leuchtenburg. "One day he and I were walking across the Columbia campus on 116th Street. I was talking enthusiastically about how psychotherapy can change people for the better, and Dick shook his head and cited [the psychoanalyst Otto] Fenichel to me as demonstrating how our lives are irrevocably shaped by the cards we are dealt in infancy."
Hofstadter's cultivated, necessary detachment found an important counterbalance in his scholarly vocation. "He was a very fragile, not very brave person, who became brave in his work," Dan Hofstadter maintains. "He struck a workable truce with his fears." The juxtaposition between interior and exterior could be confusing. "When you met him," one Hofstadter student remembered, "you didn't have a sense that this was Richard Hofstadter. You didn't have the sense that you were in the presence of a distinctive mind whose work had really changed the face of American historiography." In fact, he played different roles before different audiences. A talented mimic, he entertained brilliantly at intimate social settings, impersonating comedians, politicians, and the more starchy historians he encountered at professional gatherings. This was neither a precious nor private talent. Hofstadter openly communicated a genius for fearless exposure, perceptive play, and bold commentary through his scholarship. A quiet and in some ways distant man, he came alive in the motion of performance, and this included the liberating freedom of the open page.
This biography is naturally an extended conversation with the formal writings of Richard Hofstadter.

</file>

<file= AmE06_G36>

We were young. We were in love. We were rollicking in those sublime early days of marriage when life seems about as good as life can get. We could not leave well enough alone. 
And so on a January evening in 1991, my wife of fifteen months and I ate a quick dinner together and headed off to answer a classified ad in the Palm Beach Post. 
Why we were doing this, I wasn't quite sure. A few weeks earlier I had awoken just after dawn to find the bed beside me empty. I got up and found Jenny sitting in her bathrobe at the glass table on the screened porch of our little bungalow, bent over the newspaper with a pen in her hand. 
There was nothing unusual about the scene. Not only was the Palm Beach Post our local paper, it was also the source of half of our household income. We were a two-newspaper-career couple. Jenny worked as a feature writer in the Post's "Accent" section; I was a news reporter at the competing paper in the area, the South Florida Sun-Sentinel, based an hour south in Fort Lauderdale. We began every morning poring over the newspapers, seeing how our stories were played and how they stacked up to the competition. We circled, underlined, and clipped with abandon. But on this morning, Jenny's nose was not in the news pages but in the classified section. When I stepped closer, I saw she was feverishly circling beneath the heading "Pets: Dogs." 
"Uh," I said in that new-husband, still-treading-gently voice. "Is there something I should know?" 
She did not answer. 
"Jen-Jen?" 
"It's the plant," she finally said, her voice carrying a slight edge of desperation. 
"The plant?" I asked. 
"That dumb plant," she said. "The one we killed." 
The one we killed? I wasn't about to press the point, but for the record it was the plant that I bought and she killed. I had surprised her with it one night, a lovely large dieffenbachia with emerald-and-cream variegated leaves. "What's the occasion?" she'd asked. But there was none. I'd given it to her for no reason other than to say, "Damn, isn't married life great?" 
She had adored both the gesture and the plant and thanked me by throwing her arms around my neck and kissing me on the lips. Then she promptly went on to kill my gift to her with an assassin's coldhearted efficiency. Not that she was trying to; if anything, she nurtured the poor thing to death. Jenny didn't exactly have a green thumb. Working on the assumption that all living things require water, but apparently forgetting that they also need air, she began flooding the dieffenbachia on a daily basis. 
"Be careful not to overwater it," I had warned. 
"Okay," she had replied, and then dumped on another gallon. 
The sicker the plant got, the more she doused it, until finally it just kind of melted into an oozing heap. I looked at its limp skeleton in the pot by the window and thought, Man, someone who believes in omens could have a field day with this one. 
Now here she was, somehow making the cosmic leap of logic from dead flora in a pot to living fauna in the pet classifieds. Kill a plant, buy a puppy. Well, of course it made perfect sense. 
I looked more closely at the newspaper in front of her and saw that one ad in particular seemed to have caught her fancy. She had drawn three fat red stars beside it. It read: "Lab puppies, yellow. AKC purebred. All shots. Parents on premises." 
"So," I said, "can you run this plant-pet thing by me one more time?" 
"You know," she said, looking up. "I tried so hard and look what happened. I can't even keep a stupid houseplant alive. I mean, how hard is that? All you need to do is water the damn thing." 
Then she got to the real issue: "If I can't even keep a plant alive, how am I ever going to keep a baby alive?" She looked like she might start crying. 
The Baby Thing, as I called it, had become a constant in Jenny's life and was getting bigger by the day. When we had first met, at a small newspaper in western Michigan, she was just a few months out of college, and serious adulthood still seemed a far distant concept. For both of us, it was our first professional job out of school. We ate a lot of pizza, drank a lot of beer, and gave exactly zero thought to the possibility of someday being anything other than young, single, unfettered consumers of pizza and beer. 
But years passed. We had barely begun dating when various job opportunities and a one-year postgraduate program for me pulled us in different directions across the eastern United States . At first we were one hour's drive apart. Then we were three hours apart. Then eight, then twenty-four. By the time we both landed together in South Florida and tied the knot, she was nearly thirty. Her friends were having babies. Her body was sending her strange messages. That once seemingly eternal window of procreative opportunity was slowly lowering. 
I leaned over her from behind, wrapped my arms around her shoulders, and kissed the top of her head. "It's okay," I said. But I had to admit, she raised a good question. Neither of us had ever really nurtured a thing in our lives. Sure, we'd had pets growing up, but they didn't really count. We always knew our parents would keep them alive and well. We both knew we wanted to one day have children, but was either of us really up for the job? Children were so ... so... scary. They were helpless and fragile and looked like they would break easily if dropped. 
A little smile broke out on Jenny's face. "I thought maybe a dog would be good practice," she said. 
As we drove through the darkness, heading northwest out of town where the suburbs of West Palm Beach fade into sprawling country properties, I thought through our decision to bring home a dog. It was a huge responsibility, especially for two people with full-time jobs. Yet we knew what we were in for. We'd both grown up with dogs and loved them immensely. I'd had Saint Shaun and Jenny had had Saint Winnie, her family's beloved English setter. Our happiest childhood memories almost all included those dogs. Hiking with them, swimming with them, playing with them, getting in trouble with them. If Jenny really only wanted a dog to hone her parenting skills, I would have tried to talk her in off the ledge and maybe placate her with a goldfish. But just as we knew we wanted children someday, we knew with equal certainty that our family home would not be complete without a dog sprawled at our feet. When we were dating, long before children ever came on our radar, we spent hours discussing our childhood pets, how much we missed them and how we longed someday -- once we had a house to call our own and some stability in our lives -- to own a dog again. 
Now we had both. We were together in a place we did not plan to leave anytime soon. And we had a house to call our very own. 
It was a perfect little house on a perfect little quarter-acre fenced lot just right for a dog. And the location was just right, too, a funky city neighborhood one and a half blocks off the Intracoastal Waterway separating West Palm Beach from the rarified mansions of Palm Beach. At the foot of our street, Churchill Road , a linear green park and paved trail stretched for miles along the waterfront. It was ideal for jogging and bicycling and Rollerblading. And, more than anything, for walking a dog. 
The house was built in the 1950s and had an Old Florida charm: a fireplace, rough plaster walls, big airy windows, and French doors leading to our favorite space of all, the screened back porch. The yard was a little tropical haven, filled with palms and bromeliads and avocado trees and brightly colored coleus plants. Dominating the property was a towering mango tree; each summer it dropped its heavy fruit with loud thuds that sounded, somewhat grotesquely, like bodies being thrown off the roof. We would lie awake in bed and listen: Thud! Thud! Thud! We bought the two-bedroom, one-bath bungalow a few months after we returned from our honeymoon and immediately set about refurbishing it. The prior owners, a retired postal clerk and his wife, loved the color green. The exterior stucco was green. The interior walls were green. The curtains were green. The shutters were green. The front door was green. The carpet, which they had just purchased to help sell the house, was green. Not a cheery kelly green or a cool emerald green or even a daring lime green but a puke-your-guts-out-after-split-pea-soup green accented with khaki trim. The place had the feel of an army field barracks. 
On our first night in the house, we ripped up every square inch of the new green carpeting and dragged it to the curb. Where the carpet had been, we discovered a pristine oak plank floor that, as best we could tell, had never suffered the scuff of a single shoe. We painstakingly sanded and varnished it to a high sheen. Then we went out and blew the better part of two weeks' pay for a handwoven Persian rug, which we unfurled in the living room in front of the fireplace. Over the months, we repainted every green surface and replaced every green accessory. The postal clerk's house was slowly becoming our own. 
Once we got the joint just right, of course, it only made sense that we bring home a large, four-legged roommate with sharp toenails, large teeth, and exceedingly limited English-language skills to start tearing it apart again. "Slow down, dingo, or you're going to miss it," Jenny scolded. "It should be coming up any second."We were driving through inky blackness across what had once been swampland, drained after World War II for farming and later colonized by suburbanites seeking a country lifestyle. 
As Jenny predicted, our headlights soon illuminated a mailbox marked with the address we were looking for. I turned up a gravel drive that led into a large wooded property with a pond in front of the house and a small barn out back. At the door, a middle-aged woman named Lori greeted us, a big, placid yellow Labrador retriever by her side. "This is Lily, the proud mama," Lori said after we introduced ourselves. We could see that five weeks after birth Lily's stomach was still swollen and her teats pronounced. We both got on our knees, and she happily accepted our affection. She was just what we pictured a Lab would be: sweet-natured, affectionate, calm, and breathtakingly beautiful. 
"Where's the father?" I asked. "Oh," the woman said, hesitating for just a fraction of a second. "Sammy Boy? He's around here somewhere." She quickly added, "I imagine you're dying to see the puppies." 
She led us through the kitchen out to a utility room that had been drafted into service as a nursery. Newspapers covered the floor, and in one corner was a low box lined with old beach towels. But we hardly noticed any of that. How could we with nine tiny yellow puppies stumbling all over one another as they clamored to check out the latest strangers to drop by? Jenny gasped. "Oh my," she said. "I don't think I've ever seen anything so cute in my life." We sat on the floor and let the puppies climb all over us as Lily happily bounced around, tail wagging and nose poking each of her offspring to make sure all was well.

</file>

<file= AmE06_G37>

It would have been spring. The neighborhood yards still yellow and concrete hard, the side panels of the cars you pass on the way home from work spattered with arcing crusts of road salt, the big oaks and elms that loom along Lake Shore Drive throwing down long pale rows of shadow. These trees are covered with stony gray bark, their naked branches black lightning against a deepening indigo sky. Everywhere winter's grim spell still holds. 

A Midwestern spring at the Forty-sixth Parallel is a different sort of season than the spring one finds even five degrees lower, in Milwaukee, say, or Chicago. In Michigan's Upper Peninsula spring never truly arrives. It passes through for a few weeks, shrinks and smoothens the filthy fringes of snow that sit packed against the curbs, finishes with a fine icy sheen the misshapen islets of snow out in the yard that stubbornly refuse to melt, but spring does not arrive. It does not come. One receives only the suggestion of spring here, followed by a hot, windy summer. You are thinking of this as you circle around your huge yard (which takes up half the block), noting its lumpy archipelago of remaining snow, before finally pulling into the driveway. There is something exhausted about the way your station wagon's engine sputters and dies. For a moment you sit there in the car looking at the remaining mounds of snow. On bright days, when the sunlight angles down on the ice crystals just right, the reflection can be difficult to look at. But on this cloudy late afternoon there is but little light. Your eyes ache anyway, the silvery imminence of evening hovering above you. Where is spring? you think, now standing in your driveway, gazing upon your house, its coldly reflective windows, its closed doors. Today you have left work early and driven the long way home. It is 5 p.m. on April 29, 1975. 
The lights come on in the empty kitchen. You keep your hand on the circular plastic knob, fiddling with and turning the adjustor. Darker, lighter, darker. You cannot find the proper setting, going from break-room bright to dinner-party mild to opium-den dim at the speed of light. But what is the speed of darkness? The cabinetry is all chocolaty wood, the countertops a hard Formica blaze of orange, a room that seems dark even when it is blazingly illumed. At last (fuck it) you switch off the overhead light, the sound of your own heart more audible while you stand in charcoal shadow.

You stare at the kitchen table. Two ashtrays, one on each end of the table, form twin pyres of your wife Muff's lipsticked butts. An empty baby bottle, its sides still cloudy with clinging breast milk. A tall red, white, and blue can of Budweiser, its top-popped aperture keyhole-shaped. You know it is urine warm and half full before you even touch it. Your live-in younger brother Paul's, no doubt. (Muff claims to see Paul only when he is "drunk, sleeping, or hung over." He is twenty-four. What can you do?) The lazy Susan and its cargo of gift-shop jetsam, souvenirs from trips you no longer remember: expensive glass salt and pepper shakers Muff had to have, the floral-patterned porcelain sugar dish, the toothpick holder shaped like a rotund little monk, the plastic tray freighted with a yellow slab of room-temperature margarine. A neatly planed pile of mail awaits you on the table's corner. All of it adding up to life, one little corner in a seven-year repository of marriage. You do not even look through the mail.

When I asked you what this time was like, you said only, "I was a young guy, working hard. Always pissed off. Always." You were a trust officer at the First National Bank, managing other people's money. They save up here in the woods. From the millionaire widows living in fireplace-heated homes to the couples sitting on $700,000 portfolios while driving rusty Ford pickups, you were learning all about the strange camouflage and various neuroses of rural wealth. What made many of your customers' mattress stuffing so frustrating was that you were broke. Every morning that you parked your used Chevy station wagon beside your boss's long cream Cadillac reminded you of this. The Bissells, of course, were reputed around town to have money - how faces in Escanaba changed when the name Bissell came flying back at them! - but over the last seven years you had watched it all go up in the low fires of your various new responsibilities.

Broke. Such a hard, simple, declarative word. You dreamed of making $20,000 a year, three times and more your current salary. Twenty thousand dollars: the number itself was talismanic, as beautiful as a finish line. It would bandage these seven years of hemorrhaging marital wounds and keep them stanched forever. Because now things were not well. "Your mother," you told me once, without bitterness, "wanted a better life." Everything at this time felt to you cold and dead, as though your touch itself were warmth-draining, death-contagious. Every room of the house was dark and angry that spring, unwarmed and unloved, but there were few places for blame to gather. Nor was there any place to hide.

You walk through your family's ancestral seven-bedroom house looking for your wife and sons, a journey of several minutes. To many visitors, the Bissell house, one of Escanaba's biggest, always felt less like a home than a series of pastel caverns linked by massively arched throughways. You drift through the canary-wallpapered dining room (the chandelier so huge and gaudy it was vaguely embarrassing to pass beneath it), the green-carpeted living room (most of its antique furniture having not known human weight in years), and pass into the final and most spacious - the television room. The Bissell house's placement on the littoral edge of town allows the television room's four massive bay windows to look out onto Ludington Park, beyond which spans the seascape tundra of still-frozen Lake Michigan. Today the lake is a surface storm of twirling snow devils. As expected, here you find Muff and your sons. Your little sister Alicia is upstairs, in her room, listening to the Monkees (she still refuses to acknowledge that they did not play their instruments), while your brother Paul, you can guess, is out with friends, most likely attached to a keg hose.

Muff is watching television with your son Johno, who at five resembles nothing so much as a pudgy, thin-haired Buddha. Muff looks beautiful, of course. How could she not? She once bested her classmate Farrah Fawcett in a junior high beauty contest in Corpus Christi, Texas. The hair your wife has bleached platinum blond every week for the last decade achieves gravity-defying proportions, a hair-spray skyscraper. She wears slightly too much powder blue eye shadow that is carefully matched to the color of her thin turtleneck sweater. She holds Johno on her knee, lightly bouncing him - though he is too big for this - her long hard white fingernails mildly alarming whenever she pushes his hair across his forehead. She looks at you and nods hello, already expecting the worst.

At the room's far edge, across a bay of orange carpet, almost swallowed by her recliner, Aunt Grace sits knitting. She is white-haired and thick-calved, wearing big nunnish brown shoes, a solid blue dress, and a red shawl so tasseled and incomplete-looking your initial thought is that she is knitting it upon her own shoulders. You know that amid the needles' steady clicking Grace is waiting for the inevitable flare of discord between you and Muff, whereupon she will quietly stand to leave and, later in the evening, offer neutral comfort to you both. With age comes wisdom: the sort of bromide one hears all the time, even as less and less clear evidence seems to support it. Grace is welcome proof that - at least sometimes, in some people - with age comes wisdom. But Grace is not much help with what vexes you today. Her own husband, Herb, died of a heart attack in his forties, still wracked by the horrors of World War I's battlefields. Herb never spoke of the war to Grace, and thus, in your mind, she never truly knew the man she loved. War, then. Always war. In regard to the war, your war, you could very much use some human wisdom right now. You are thirty-three years old, and the events of the last few weeks have not made much sense. Or rather, the events have made sense, but nothing else has.

Vietnam is a dream to you. It has been eight years since you took in its scents, felt its Asian sunlight on your white skin. The war comes to you now not as whole memory but in pieces and fragments as ragged and drifty as ash. Up half the night, turning in the wet-flannel heat, checking on sentries, checking on your gunner placements. Up early in the morning for patrols, still hot. Or sleeping all day for night patrols, hot again, these night patrols the worst, always the worst, feeling like four-hour-long panic attacks enacted within a nightmare. Your clothes rotting, your feet rotting. The ankle sores that never healed and remained as bright and wet as fresh raspberries. The sweat that was like another layer of clothing. Your smell, that deep swampy smell of your body. The mold you picked from between your toes and flicked lightheartedly at whoever was nearest. The smell of twenty Marines' unwashed asses and unbrushed teeth all around you, the olfactory orchestra of the jungle itself, the warm, buttery smell of a cleaned M14, the firecracker stench of gunfire. You still smell it, sometimes, when you wake up sweating, Muff having been driven to the couch hours before by your kicking. You smell it when the remnant of the malaria banished to the depths of your cells catches you with a chill that almost takes you to your knees, when your limbs thrum with a ghostly soreness, when the shrapnel wound on your neck glows with a sudden inner fire.

You left Vietnam in late 1966, a time when the word "quagmire" was just abandoning Roget's as its most natural habitat. The war then was still tenable, winnable - or so it was thought. But now it was la fin de la guerre, the real fin, not the "peace with honor" that extricated the Americans in 1973, only two years ago, but the final campaign. A headline you saw only seven days ago: HOPE THINS FOR MILLIONS ADRIFT ACROSS INDOCHINA. Your hope has thinned, too, and your very body aches of its thinning. You feel incomplete, as though within you some crucial girder of emotion has gone missing. That part of you is still in Vietnam. That part never left.
II
In late March 1975, the Saigon newspaper Chinh Luan published an article, now known as the "Fare Thee Well" dispatch, that had been written in the midst of fierce combat between the armies of North and South Vietnam as South Vietnam was unraveling. The author was the South Vietnamese war correspondent Nguyen Dinh Tu. Through "the outstanding initiative and very strong leadership of the United States," Tu wrote, "the Paris Peace Agreement was signed on the 27th of January 1973 to international applause of our friends, especially in the United States, leading to 'Peace with Honor' in accord with the desires of former President Nixon, the present Secretary of State Henry Kissinger, Congress, and the entire American people. The fact that these friends have been able to return to the warmth of their families is something for which I personally, with all my heart and soul, rejoice." But Tu went on:

"Now, after two years of "Peace with Honor[,]" through the reports of newspapers, wire services, radio, and television all over the world, those friends are now observing the disintegration that is spreading daily across my homeland. Thousands of my country's soldiers have continued to fall throughout the two years of "Peace with Honor."

</file>

<file= AmE06_G38>

"I promise you four papers," the young patent examiner wrote his friend. The letter would turn out to bear some of the most significant tidings in the history of science, but its momentous nature was masked by an impish tone that was typical of its author. He had, after all, just addressed his friend as "you frozen whale" and apologized for writing a letter that was "inconsequential babble." Only when he got around to describing the papers, which he had produced during his spare time, did he give some indication that he sensed their significance. 

"The first deals with radiation and the energy properties of light and is very revolutionary," he explained. Yes, it was indeed revolutionary. It argued that light could be regarded not just as a wave but also as a stream of tiny particles called quanta. The implications that would eventually arise from this theory -- a cosmos without strict causality or certainty -- would spook him for the rest of his life. 

"The second paper is a determination of the true sizes of atoms." Even though the very existence of atoms was still in dispute, this was the most straightforward of the papers, which is why he chose it as the safest bet for his latest attempt at a doctoral thesis. He was in the process of revolutionizing physics, but he had been repeatedly thwarted in his efforts to win an academic job or even get a doctoral degree, which he hoped might get him promoted from a third- to a second-class examiner at the patent office. 

The third paper explained the jittery motion of microscopic particles in liquid by using a statistical analysis of random collisions. In the process, it established that atoms and molecules actually exist. 

"The fourth paper is only a rough draft at this point, and is an electrodynamics of moving bodies which employs a modification of the theory of space and time." Well, that was certainly more than inconsequential babble. Based purely on thought experiments -- performed in his head rather than in a lab -- he had decided to discard Newton's concepts of absolute space and time. It would become known as the Special Theory of Relativity. 

What he did not tell his friend, because it had not yet occurred to him, was that he would produce a fifth paper that year, a short addendum to the fourth, which posited a relationship between energy and mass. Out of it would arise the best-known equation in all of physics: E=mc2. 

Looking back at a century that will be remembered for its willingness to break classical bonds, and looking ahead to an era that seeks to nurture the creativity needed for scientific innovation, one person stands out as a paramount icon of our age: the kindly refugee from oppression whose wild halo of hair, twinkling eyes, engaging humanity, and extraordinary brilliance made his face a symbol and his name a synonym for genius. Albert Einstein was a locksmith blessed with imagination and guided by a faith in the harmony of nature's handiwork. His fascinating story, a testament to the connection between creativity and freedom, reflects the triumphs and tumults of the modern era. 

Now that his archives have been completely opened, it is possible to explore how the private side of Einstein -- his nonconformist personality, his instincts as a rebel, his curiosity, his passions and detachments -- intertwined with his political side and his scientific side. Knowing about the man helps us understand the wellsprings of his science, and vice versa. Character and imagination and creative genius were all related, as if part of some unified field. 

Despite his reputation for being aloof, he was in fact passionate in both his personal and scientific pursuits. At college he fell madly in love with the only woman in his physics class, a dark and intense Serbian named Mileva Maric´. They had an illegitimate daughter, then married and had two sons. She served as a sounding board for his scientific ideas and helped to check the math in his papers, but eventually their relationship disintegrated. Einstein offered her a deal. He would win the Nobel Prize someday, he said; if she gave him a divorce, he would give her the prize money. She thought for a week and accepted. Because his theories were so radical, it was seventeen years after his miraculous outpouring from the patent office before he was awarded the prize and she collected. 

Einstein's life and work reflected the disruption of societal certainties and moral absolutes in the modernist atmosphere of the early twentieth century. Imaginative nonconformity was in the air: Picasso, Joyce, Freud, Stravinsky, Schoenberg, and others were breaking conventional bonds. Charging this atmosphere was a conception of the universe in which space and time and the properties of particles seemed based on the vagaries of observations. 

Einstein, however, was not truly a relativist, even though that is how he was interpreted by many, including some whose disdain was tinged by anti-Semitism. Beneath all of his theories, including relativity, was a quest for invariants, certainties, and absolutes. There was a harmonious reality underlying the laws of the universe, Einstein felt, and the goal of science was to discover it. 

His quest began in 1895, when as a 16-year-old he imagined what it would be like to ride alongside a light beam. A decade later came his miracle year, described in the letter above, which laid the foundations for the two great advances of twentieth-century physics: relativity and quantum theory. 

A decade after that, in 1915, he wrested from nature his crowning glory, one of the most beautiful theories in all of science, the general theory of relativity. As with the special theory, his thinking had evolved through thought experiments. Imagine being in an enclosed elevator accelerating up through space, he conjectured in one of them. The effects you'd feel would be indistinguishable from the experience of gravity. 

Gravity, he figured, was a warping of space and time, and he came up with the equations that describe how the dynamics of this curvature result from the interplay between matter, motion, and energy. It can be described by using another thought experiment. Picture what it would be like to roll a bowling ball onto the two-dimensional surface of a trampoline. Then roll some billiard balls. They move toward the bowling ball not because it exerts some mysterious attraction but because of the way it curves the trampoline fabric. Now imagine this happening in the four-dimensional fabric of space and time. Okay, it's not easy, but that's why we're no Einstein and he was. 

The exact midpoint of his career came a decade after that, in 1925, and it was a turning point. The quantum revolution he had helped to launch was being transformed into a new mechanics that was based on uncertainties and probabilities. He made his last great contributions to quantum mechanics that year but, simultaneously, began to resist it. He would spend the next three decades, ending with some equations scribbled while on his deathbed in 1955, stubbornly criticizing what he regarded as the incompleteness of quantum mechanics while attempting to subsume it into a unified field theory. 

Both during his thirty years as a revolutionary and his subsequent thirty years as a resister, Einstein remained consistent in his willingness to be a serenely amused loner who was comfortable not conforming. Independent in his thinking, he was driven by an imagination that broke from the confines of conventional wisdom. He was that odd breed, a reverential rebel, and he was guided by a faith, which he wore lightly and with a twinkle in his eye, in a God who would not play dice by allowing things to happen by chance. 

Einstein's nonconformist streak was evident in his personality and politics as well. Although he subscribed to socialist ideals, he was too much of an individualist to be comfortable with excessive state control or centralized authority. His impudent instincts, which served him so well as a young scientist, made him allergic to nationalism, militarism, and anything that smacked of a herd mentality. And until Hitler caused him to revise his geopolitical equations, he was an instinctive pacifist who celebrated resistance to war. 

His tale encompasses the vast sweep of modern science, from the infinitesimal to the infinite, from the emission of photons to the expansion of the cosmos. A century after his great triumphs, we are still living in Einstein's universe, one defined on the macro scale by his theory of relativity and on the micro scale by a quantum mechanics that has proven durable even as it remains disconcerting. 

His fingerprints are all over today's technologies. Photoelectric cells and lasers, nuclear power and fiber optics, space travel, and even semiconductors all trace back to his theories. He signed the letter to Franklin Roosevelt warning that it may be possible to build an atom bomb, and the letters of his famed equation relating energy to mass hover in our minds when we picture the resulting mushroom cloud. 

Einstein's launch into fame, which occurred when measurements made during a 1919 eclipse confirmed his prediction of how much gravity bends light, coincided with, and contributed to, the birth of a new celebrity age. He became a scientific supernova and humanist icon, one of the most famous faces on the planet. The public earnestly puzzled over his theories, elevated him into a cult of genius, and canonized him as a secular saint. 

If he did not have that electrified halo of hair and those piercing eyes, would he still have become science's preeminent poster boy? Suppose, as a thought experiment, that he had looked like a Max Planck or a Niels Bohr. Would he have remained in their reputational orbit, that of a mere scientific genius? Or would he still have made the leap into the pantheon inhabited by Aristotle, Galileo, and Newton? 

The latter, I believe, is the case. His work had a very personal character, a stamp that made it recognizably his, the way a Picasso is recognizably a Picasso. He made imaginative leaps and discerned great principles through thought experiments rather than by methodical inductions based on experimental data. The theories that resulted were at times astonishing, mysterious, and counterintuitive, yet they contained notions that could capture the popular imagination: the relativity of space and time, E=mc2, the bending of light beams, and the warping of space. 

Adding to his aura was his simple humanity. His inner security was tempered by the humility that comes from being awed by nature. He could be detached and aloof from those close to him, but toward mankind in general he exuded a true kindness and gentle compassion. 

Yet for all of his popular appeal and surface accessibility, Einstein also came to symbolize the perception that modern physics was something that ordinary laymen could not comprehend, "the province of priest-like experts," in the words of Harvard professor Dudley Herschbach. It was not always thus. Galileo and Newton were both great geniuses, but their mechanical cause-and-effect explanation of the world was something that most thoughtful folks could grasp. In the eighteenth century of Benjamin Franklin and the nineteenth century of Thomas Edison, an educated person could feel some familiarity with science and even dabble in it as an amateur. 

A popular feel for scientific endeavors should, if possible, be restored given the needs of the twenty-first century. This does not mean that every literature major should take a watered-down physics course or that a corporate lawyer should stay abreast of quantum mechanics. Rather, it means that an appreciation for the methods of science is a useful asset for a responsible citizenry. What science teaches us, very significantly, is the correlation between factual evidence and general theories, something well illustrated in Einstein's life. 

In addition, an appreciation for the glories of science is a joyful trait for a good society. It helps us remain in touch with that childlike capacity for wonder, about such ordinary things as falling apples and elevators, that characterizes Einstein and other great theoretical physicists.

</file>

<file= AmE06_G39>

I wish Giovanni would kiss me. 

Oh, but there are so many reasons why this would be a terrible idea. To begin with, Giovanni is ten years younger than I am, and  -  like most Italian guys in their twenties  -  he still lives with his mother. These facts alone make him an unlikely romantic partner for me, given that I am a professional American woman in my mid-thirties, who has just come through a failed marriage and a devastating, interminable divorce, followed immediately by a passionate love affair that ended in sickening heartbreak. This loss upon loss has left me feeling sad and brittle and about seven thousand years old. Purely 
as a matter of principle I wouldn't inflict my sorry, busted-up old self on the lovely, unsullied Giovanni. Not to mention that I have finally arrived at that age where a woman starts to question whether the wisest way to get over 
the loss of one beautiful brown-eyed young man is indeed to promptly invite another one into her bed. This is why I have been alone for many months now. This is why, in fact, I have decided to spend this entire year in celibacy. 

To which the savvy observer might inquire: "Then why did you come to Italy?" 

To which I can only reply  -  especially when looking across the table at handsome Giovanni  - "Excellent question."

Giovanni is my Tandem Exchange Partner. That sounds like an innuendo, but unfortunately it's not. All it really means is that we meet a few evenings a week here in Rome to practice each other's languages. We speak first in Italian, and he is patient with me; then we speak in English, and I am patient with him. I discovered Giovanni a few weeks after I'd arrived in Rome, thanks to that big Internet café at the Piazza Barbarini, across the street from that fountain with the sculpture of that sexy merman blowing into his conch shell. He (Giovanni, that is - not the merman) had posted 
a flier on the bulletin board explaining that a native Italian speaker was seeking a native English speaker for conversational language practice. Right beside his appeal was another flier with the same request, word-for-word identical in every way, right down to the typeface. The only difference was the contact information. One flier listed an e-mail address for somebody named Giovanni; the other introduced somebody named Dario. But even the home phone number was the same.

Using my keen intuitive powers, I e-mailed both men at the same time, asking in Italian, "Are you perhaps brothers?"

It was Giovanni who wrote back this very provocativo message: "Even better. Twins!"

Yes - much better. Tall, dark and handsome identical twenty-five-year-old twins, as it turned out, with those giant brown liquid-center Italian eyes that just unstitch me. After meeting the boys in person, I began to wonder if perhaps I should adjust my rule somewhat about remaining celibate this year. For instance, perhaps I could remain totally celibate except for keeping a pair of handsome twenty-five-year-old Italian twin brothers as lovers. Which was slightly reminiscent of a friend of mine who is vegetarian except for bacon, but nonetheless ... I was already composing my letter to Penthouse:

In the flickering, candlelit shadows of the Roman café, it was impossible to tell whose hands were caress - 

But, no.

No and no.

I chopped the fantasy off in mid-word. This was not my moment to be seeking romance and (as day follows night) to further complicate my already knotty life. This was my moment to look for the kind of healing and peace that can only come from solitude.

Anyway, by now, by the middle of November, the shy, studious Giovanni and I have become dear buddies. As for Dario - the more razzle-dazzle swinger brother of the two - I have introduced him to my adorable little Swedish friend Sofie, and how they've been sharing their evenings in Rome is another kind of Tandem Exchange altogether. But Giovanni and I, we only talk. Well, we eat and we talk. We have been eating and talking for many pleasant weeks now, sharing pizzas and gentle grammatical corrections, and tonight has been no exception. A lovely evening of new idioms and fresh mozzarella.

Now it is midnight and foggy, and Giovanni is walking me home to my apartment through these back streets of Rome, which meander organically around the ancient buildings like bayou streams snaking around shadowy clumps of cypress groves. Now we are at my door. We face each other. He gives me a warm hug. This is an improvement; for the first few weeks, he would only shake my hand. I think if I were to stay in Italy for another three years, he might actually get up the juice to kiss me. On the other hand, he might just kiss me right now, tonight, right here by my door ... there's still a chance ... I mean we're pressed up against each other's bodies beneath this moonlight ... and of course it would be a terrible mistake ... but it's still such a wonderful possibility that he might actually do it right now ... that he might just bend down ... and ... and ...

Nope.

He separates himself from the embrace.

"Good night, my dear Liz," he says.

"Buona notte, caro mio," I reply.

I walk up the stairs to my fourth-floor apartment, all alone. I let myself into my tiny little studio, all alone. I shut the door behind me. Another solitary bedtime in Rome. Another long night's sleep ahead of me, with nobody and nothing in my bed except a pile of Italian phrase books and dictionaries.

I am alone, I am all alone, I am completely alone.

Grasping this reality, I let go of my bag, drop to my knees and press my forehead against the floor. There, I offer up to the universe a fervent prayer of thanks.

First in English.

Then in Italian.

And then  -  just to get the point across  -  in Sanskrit.

And since I am already down there in supplication on the floor, let me hold that position as I reach back in time three years earlier to the moment when this entire story began  -  a moment which also found me in this exact same posture: on my knees, on a floor, praying.

Everything else about the three-years-ago scene was different, though. That time, I was not in Rome but in the upstairs bathroom of the big house in the suburbs of New York which I'd recently purchased with my husband. It was a cold November, around three o'clock in the morning. My husband was sleeping in our bed. I was hiding in the bathroom for something like the forty-seventh consecutive night, and  -  just as during all those nights 
before  -  I was sobbing. Sobbing so hard, in fact, that a great lake of tears and snot was spreading before me on the bathroom tiles, a veritable Lake Inferior (if you will) of all my shame and fear and confusion and grief.

I don't want to be married anymore.

I was trying so hard not to know this, but the truth kept insisting itself 
to me.

I don't want to be married anymore. I don't want to live in this big house. I don't want to have a baby.
But I was supposed to want to have a baby. I was thirty-one years old. My husband and I  - who had been together for eight years, married for six  -  had built our entire life around the common expectation that, after passing the doddering old age of thirty, I would want to settle down and have children. By then, we mutually anticipated, I would have grown weary of traveling and would be happy to live in a big, busy household full of children and homemade quilts, with a garden in the backyard and a cozy stew bubbling on the stovetop. (The fact that this was a fairly accurate portrait of my own mother is a quick indicator of how difficult it once was for me to tell the difference between myself and the powerful woman who had raised me.) But I didn't  -  as I was appalled to be finding out  -  want any of these things. Instead, as my twenties had come to a close, that deadline of THIRTY had loomed over me like a death sentence, and I discovered that I did not want to be pregnant. I kept waiting to want to have a baby, but it didn't happen. And I know what it feels like to want something, believe me. I well know what desire feels like. But it wasn't there. Moreover, I couldn't stop thinking about what my sister had said to me once, as she was breast-feeding her firstborn: "Having a baby is like getting a tattoo on your face. You really need to be certain it's what you want before you commit."

How could I turn back now, though? Everything was in place. This was supposed to be the year. In fact, we'd been trying to get pregnant for a few months already. But nothing had happened (aside from the fact that - in an almost sarcastic mockery of pregnancy - I was experiencing psychosomatic morning sickness, nervously throwing up my breakfast every day). And every month when I got my period I would find myself whispering furtively in the bathroom: Thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you for giving me one more month to live ...

I'd been attempting to convince myself that this was normal. All women must feel this way when they're trying to get pregnant, I'd decided. ("Ambivalent" was the word I used, avoiding the much more accurate description: "utterly consumed with dread.") I was trying to convince myself that my feelings were customary, despite all evidence to the contrary  -  such as the acquaintance I'd run into last week who'd just discovered that she was pregnant for the first time, after spending two years and a king's ransom in fertility treatments. She was ecstatic. She had wanted to be a mother forever, she told me. She admitted she'd been secretly buying baby clothes for years and hiding them under the bed, where her husband wouldn't find them. I saw the joy in her face and I recognized it. This was the exact joy my own face had radiated last spring, the day I discovered that the magazine I worked for was going to send me on assignment to New Zealand, to write an article about the search for giant squid. And I thought, "Until I can feel as ecstatic about having a baby as I felt about going to New Zealand to search for a giant squid, I cannot have a baby."

I don't want to be married anymore.

In daylight hours, I refused that thought, but at night it would consume me. What a catastrophe. How could I be such a criminal jerk as to proceed this deep into a marriage, only to leave it? We'd only just bought this house a year ago. Hadn't I wanted this nice house? Hadn't I loved it? So why was I haunting its halls every night now, howling like Medea? Wasn't I proud of all we'd accumulated  -  the prestigious home in the Hudson Valley, the apartment in Manhattan, the eight phone lines, the friends and the picnics and the parties, the weekends spent roaming the aisles of some box-shaped superstore of our choice, buying ever more appliances on credit? I had actively participated in every moment of the creation of this life  - so why did I feel like none of it resembled me? Why did I feel so overwhelmed with duty, tired of being the primary breadwinner and the housekeeper and the social coordinator and the dog-walker and the wife and the soon-to-be mother, and  -  somewhere in my stolen moments  -  a writer ...?

I don't want to be married anymore.

</file>

<file= AmE06_G40>

Even though I acted as a surrogate parent to twenty-three kids, I didn't always understand what they were going through growing up. I couldn't compare my childhood to theirs at all. Even though I'm just in my early sixties, and was only in my forties when I made my promise, the world of my childhood has disappeared. Well, in most ways, I hope! 

I was born in Mississippi in the early 1940s, in a small town just outside Batesville. At the time Batesville, which is on the Tallahatchie River about fifty miles southwest of Memphis, Tennessee, had a population of about 15,000 people. The most interesting thing about Batesville when I was growing up was the fact that it was on the main train line that wound through the country, so we got to see all kinds of people coming and going when we were children. We also got to dream of leaving on that train, and believe you me, did I dream of leaving Mississippi! Even as a child I knew that there had to be a better life for me somewhere else, somewhere with racial integration and economic opportunity. 

I am the ninth of twelve children born to Walter and Nezzie Bivins. My parents are old-fashioned farming folk: we grew cotton and corn, and we were very proud of the fact that we were one of the only black families in Batesville who owned our own land. Almost every other black family worked as sharecroppers, which meant that they did all the hard work on another man's land and then had to give most of the profit right back to the owner. That's why black people in the South stayed poor. 

My father worked as a sharecropper for years and years before he saved up enough money to buy that land, and then we cleared and tilled it ourselves. When I say "we," I mean all of us--even at the age of eight years old I was picking fifty pounds of cotton a day, and then going back in the house to cook for twelve people. This was the time in my life when I learned a lot of the discipline--not to mention the penny-pinching--that it took to put an entire class of children through college. 

You see, when you're picking cotton, you're doing it with the understanding that there's not a lot of money to be made in it. In fact, you're breaking your back for almost nothing. I'll give you an example: my family was so disciplined about working our own sixty acres that some years, we finished our crop in time to work on another farm that hadn't finished all the picking. We were paid every day for the amount of cotton that we picked, and so I can tell you exactly how much the fifty pounds of cotton that I picked every day at the age of eight years old was worth: two dollars. I remembered that later on when I was struggling to save enough money to put my babies through college: Oral Lee, I said to myself, you used to work for two dollars a day. You can get through this. And I always did. 

It was a hard life in Mississippi. It was hard not just economically but socially, too. Thanks to segregation, black people had to live in a part of town called the Vance Bottom, down by the river, while white people lived up the hill in Batesville proper. Every few years the river flooded and destroyed many homes, and do you think any of those white people ventured down the hill to help out? That's right--they didn't. But they still expected black people to move off of the sidewalk when a white person passed by, and to keep their mouths shut after a black person was lynched by a white mob. That happened fairly often, too. Mississippi was a violent place to be a child. 

In many ways, I'm one of the lucky ones. I left home when I was twelve years old. What happened was that one of my older sisters, Willie Bea, married a young man named Paul and followed him to Newburgh, New York. They had heard there were good jobs up North, and they wanted to escape segregation. They also started having children nearly every year of their marriage, including two sets of twins! They eventually had eight children in all. That would have been far too many babies for Willie Bea to manage by herself, so I lobbied my mother to be the one who got to leave Mississippi and help out. 

After Mississippi, New York was amazing. When I arrived there at the age of twelve, everything about it felt completely foreign and new. It was the first time I had ever seen snow. It was the first time I'd ever seen a city! It was also the first time I had attended desegregated schools, and the first time I'd seen black people on an equal footing with white people. Of course there was still subtle segregation, but for the most part, everyone was just trying to make money in New York. I felt my heart bursting with pride when I saw black people who had "made it"--black people who had nice homes and nice cars just like the rich white people. 

Now, when I say that I was one of the lucky ones, I mean I was lucky because I got out of Mississippi. In a different way, though, I wasn't lucky at all: I had to leave my mother, who I loved more than life itself. There's no way to describe how much I missed her during those years in New York, and how much I continued to miss her when I was an adult. In fact, after I was an adult, I used to tell my mother in the same breath that while I was so happy she had let me go to New York--where I didn't have to live under segregation--I also felt that she shouldn't have sent me away. I believe both of those things with all of my heart, even though they contradict each other. And my mother used to laugh at my logic whenever I said that, but she understood. 

"Oral Lee," she told me, "there's no way I could've pleased you. What would you have liked me to do?" 

"I'd have liked you to have packed up and gotten on that train with me," I told her. "All of us should have moved to New York." 

She just laughed and laughed. The truth is that my mother probably wouldn't have liked New York. She's a Southerner in every way. Much later on, when all of her children were living in California, she moved to California too. Even though we all loved it, she never really got used to living there. As hard as her life was there, Mississippi was her home. I appreciate that--but I still wish that I could've put her in my suitcase when I moved to New York. 

Even though I only lived in Mississippi for twelve years, I had two crucial experiences there that shaped my life. The first thing that happened was that I met a young woman who taught me the importance of education. 

I've noticed that a lot of people who have gone on to do work in education had a special teacher during their childhood. If you read the autobiographies of educators like Helen Keller or Booker T. Washington, you'll notice that, even though they started their lives with huge disadvantages, there was someone in their childhood who mentored them and encouraged them; someone who believed in them. For me, that person was Miss Grace. 

Miss Grace was not from Batesville. I believe she was from a big town in the South, maybe Memphis. She lived in the town of Batesville, in a house that was set up especially for young female teachers from out of town. There were a few teachers who came from hotshot cities to teach us ragged kids in Batesville; I'm sure there were white women who did this for the white schools too. A number of young teachers lived in Miss Grace's house, staying in their own apartments and boarding together. Young women didn't stay on their own then like they do now. And Miss Grace was young--she must have been about twenty-two years old, fresh out of college. 

She was also beautiful. I'm not just saying that because she was the kindest lady you'd ever meet in your life! She was truly a pretty woman, and all the men in town used to stare at her. But she was one of those people who didn't even notice that kind of attention, because even though she was pretty she wasn't a snob. She was just everything that you could ever want to be: kind, beautiful, charming, gracious, sweet, intelligent, concerned. My brother Homer also had her as a teacher and even after we were grown we used to talk about how much we loved her. She was the sort of person who everyone loved. 

Now, I always said she liked me because I was the ugliest kid in the class. The other kids used to say, "Why does Miss Grace like that ugly girl?" But it didn't bother me. First of all, I was just happy to be in school in the first place. See, unlike the way things are for kids today, when I was growing up kids were either in school or they were working in the fields. So we were all thrilled to be in that schoolhouse. There was never any question of "cutting class" like kids do today. If a kid was absent from school, it was because his parents needed him to be at work in the fields. That happened to all of us around harvesting time, and we were always sorry to leave our lessons. 

I was doubly sorry to leave Miss Grace. For the first time, in addition to having someone at home who loved me--that's my mother, I was always special to my mother--I now had someone out in the world who loved me too. I often thought about how I came to play Miss Grace's role in the lives of my students. And when I got frustrated or upset with my students, I thought of Miss Grace, and that gave me peace. 

For Miss Grace and I had a special relationship. She even asked me if I would like to spend the night with her every now and then. I must have been around ten years old then. Of course I said yes, and whenever she wanted to have me over, she would write a note for me to take home to my mother. And the next day when I went to school, I took a little brown paper bag with an extra set of clothes in it, so that I could stay over with Miss Grace. 

Those were some of the best evenings of my life. After school was out, Miss Grace and I would walk back to her little rooms in the boardinghouse. It was only a few blocks from the school, not the six miles I had to walk from my house, and we would just talk and laugh all the way. She was always carrying a huge stack of books, and she gave me a stack of papers to carry. We would walk down the streets just laughing, and all the men would stop to look at her. I'm sure they were wondering, "Now what is that beautiful lady doing with that ugly child?" But I didn't care, and Miss Grace probably didn't even notice. 

Whatever I told her I wanted for supper, I would get it. We cooked the food together, and then after supper I would help her grade the papers from that day's class. If I didn't know the answers myself, she never scolded me for grading wrong.

</file>

<file= AmE06_G41>

There's something frightening, and magical, about being on the ocean, moving between the heavens and the earth, knowing that you can encounter anything on your journey.

The stars had set. The sea and sky were inky black, so black I could not see my hands pulling water in front of my face, so black there was no separation between the sea and the sky. They melted together.

It was early March and I was seventeen years old, swimming two hundred yards offshore, outside the line of breaking waves off Seal Beach, California. The water was chilly, fifty-five degrees and as smooth as black ice. And I was swimming on pace, moving at about sixty strokes per minute, etching a small silvery groove across the wide black ocean.

Usually my morning workouts started at 6 a.m., but on this day, I wanted to finish early, get home, complete my homework, and spend the day with friends, so I had begun at 5 a.m.

There were vast and silent forces swirling around me: strong water currents created by distant winds and large waves, the gravitational pull of moon and sun, and the rapid spinning of the earth. These currents were wrapping around me like long braids of soft black licorice, and I was pulling strongly with my arms, trying to slice through them.

As I swam, all I heard were the waves, rising and tumbling onto shore, the smooth rhythm of my hands splashing into the water, the breaths that I drew into my mouth and lungs, and the long gurgling of silvery bubbles rolling slowly into the sea. I slid into my pace, and I felt the water below me shudder.

It wasn't a rogue wave or a current. It felt like something else.

It was moving closer. The water was shaking harder and buckling below me.

All at once I felt very small and very alone in the deep dark sea.

Then I heard a sound. I thought it was coming from the ocean's depths.

At first it seemed to be a whisper, then it grew louder, steadily, like someone trying to shout for help but unable to get the words out. I kept swimming and trying to figure out what was happening.

The sound changed. It became stranger, like the end of a scream.

In my mind, I quickly went through a list of the ocean sounds I knew and compared them with what I was hearing. There were no matches.

The hairs on my arms were standing straight out.

Whatever it was, was moving closer.

The ocean was charged with energy. It felt uncertain and expectant, like the air just before an enormous thunderstorm. The water was electric.

Maybe that was it; maybe the water was warning of an approaching squall. Maybe energy from distant winds and torrential rains was being transmitted through the water.

I checked the sky above and the distant horizon.

Both were dull and as black as ink and there wasn't a cloud in the sky.

I lifted my head to see the wave height. The shore break wasn't increasing and there weren't any wind waves. Not even dimples on the ocean's surface. There was no sign of a storm.

It didn't make sense. The energy in the water was intensifying. I felt like I was sitting on a tree branch beside a nest of angry, buzzing bumblebees.

All at once, the sea's surface erupted nearby. There was a rushing and plunking sound.

Like raindrops hitting the water. But nothing was falling from the sky. This was wrong.

Very wrong.

Out of the darkness, things were flapping into my face, flicking off my arms and head. It was like swimming through a sea of locusts, and with each impact my muscles tightened. I was tingling with fear, and all I wanted to do was to turn and sprint for shore.

But I told myself, Stay calm. You need to focus. You need to figure out what this is.

Taking a deep breath, I looked down into the deep black sea.

Thousands of baby anchovy were darting through the water like lit sparklers.

Blinded by panic, they were frantically tearing away from their schools and leaping out of the ocean like popcorn cooking on high heat. They were trying to evade something larger.

Light was exploding around me like hundreds of tiny blue flashbulbs constantly firing.

When I turned my head to breathe, something leaped into my mouth, wiggled across my tongue, and flapped between my teeth. It was larger than the water bug I once inhaled on a lake in Maine, larger than an anchovy.

Without thinking I spat it back into the sea. It had bright silver sides and was about six inches long. It was a grunion, a fish nearly twice as large as the baby anchovy. The grunion were chasing the anchovy, snatching them from the water and swallowing them whole.

More grunion were swimming in, bumping into my thighs, raking their pointy fins across my shoulders, but I smiled. The grunion had returned. Every year the grunion return to California in the spring and summer. They wait just offshore for the full moons or new moons when the tide is high, so they can swim ashore and lay their eggs. It always seems to be a miracle that they return every year and know exactly where and when to swim ashore.

A lone male grunion, a scout, swims ahead, and if the coast is clear, hundreds of female grunion follow him in, each with as many as eight male grunion swimming alongside. They choose a special wave, one that is on the receding tide so that it will carry them higher onto the beach, and the female's eggs will not be washed out to sea.

Once a female reaches the beach, she digs a hole in the sand with her tail, then wiggles back and forth, drilling herself down into the soft wet sand until she is buried all the way up to her lips. There she lays up to three thousand eggs, and one of the male grunion arches around her and releases his milt to fertilize the eggs. Then the adult grunion swim back to sea while the eggs incubate in the warm sand for ten days. Then the baby grunion hatch and ride the tide back out to sea to begin their lives in the ocean.

I I loved to watch them come ashore and I loved to go grunion hunting. It was a big event in Southern California. In summer, I would meet friends on the beach on moonlit nights and wait for the grunion. We'd spread our large bright-striped beach blankets on a berm, at the crest in the beach, beyond the reach of the incoming waves. We'd sit wrapped up in more warm woolly blankets, sometimes alone, or sometimes snuggled up with friends to stave off the cool, damp swirling ocean breezes. We'd talk, in muffled tones so no one would scare the fish away, about boyfriends and girlfriends, about summer plans and BBQs, about our lives and our families, our dreams and how we felt. We'd explore our lives, and sometimes touch hands under the blanket. We, too, were restless, awaiting our own high tide.

Someone in our group would whisper excitedly, "There he is!"r> 
We'd jump to our feet, scanning the beach for a single fish. When we spotted one flopping on the sand, we'd watch and wait for what seemed like forever. Then a few minutes later, a wave would lift hundreds of grunion up. This wave would be so heavily laden with fish, it would rise more slowly than any other. As it curled, its dark glassy face would be altered by hundreds of grunion heads and tails protruding at all angles.

The wave would crash onshore and the grunion would spin and tumble across the sand, flipping, flopping, and pulling themselves beyond the water's edge. Their gills would beat in and out as they gasped for air. It seemed amazing to me that they could hold their breath for two or three minutes, and that they had to leave the sea and return to shore to continue the cycle of life. In utter fascination we'd watch this dance.

As soon as the grunion finished laying their eggs, they'd flip and flop back toward the water, and at that moment we'd charge across the sand, kicking mud on the backs of our legs and trying to scoop the grunion up with our bare hands.

They were always slippery, squirmy, and quick and harder to hold on to than a warm cube of butter. My friends and I might catch a few grunion, but none of us had the heart to take them home and cook them with a dusting of cornmeal and eat them as some people did. Somehow that would have spoiled the magic of all that we had witnessed. We were happy to catch them in our hands, feel the pulse of life racing through their bodies, and release them back into the warm salty waves.

As I swam I felt a strong connection with the agile schools of grunion and I thought I was lucky to be swimming with them - until I realized that they were attracting a small school of albacore tuna.

Usually the tuna lived and migrated twenty miles or more off the coast, but the abundance of food had lured them in. Albacore tuna are large fish. They weigh between twenty and forty pounds. They are shaped like giant oval beech leaves and have dark blue backs and gray-blue sides and bellies. They are very fast swimmers: they swim as if they are turbocharged.

At first I enjoyed feeling the way the water wavered and yawed as the tuna zipped to the right and left of me. But when they started leaping out of the water to catch the grunion, I grew concerned. I didn't want to be hit by a forty-pound tuna. I pulled to the right and then off to the left, but they were everywhere.

Then it happened. A big tuna weighing maybe twenty-five pounds rocketed out of the water. He smacked into my back and I jumped very high. Then another bounced off my shoulders. I started giggling. I had to roll on my side and catch my breath. It was raining tuna. What a weird, wild, and wonderful thing.

It occurred to me that these tuna would probably attract larger fish and the only larger fish I could think of were sharks. So I decided to move closer to shore, away from the feeding throngs. As I got nearer to land I started watching what was happening in the homes on the north side of the pier.

People were starting to get up. Second-floor windows that had been dark gray and vacant were becoming large glowing squares of gold, and as the people moved into their bathrooms and then downstairs more windows became gold squares. I imagined how warm it must be inside those homes. I let my mind enfold me in that golden warmth.

I was cold. The Pacific water temperature in March is in the mid-fifties; the surrounding water was constantly pulling heat from my body. It was like being wrapped up in a warm blanket on a snowy day and then having someone pull the blanket off. To overcome the heat loss, I had to swim at a rate fast enough to create heat, but still my skin always felt cold; it was as cold as the water. I could feel the cold working its way deep into my muscles.

An offshore breeze carried the warm sweet smells of smoky bacon and fried eggs, buttery pancakes, and the rich acidic aroma of brewing coffee across the water. I had been swimming for more than an hour and my stomach was grumbling loudly. All I had to do was reach the north jetty, turn around, and swim the last half mile back to the pier and then I'd be finished with my workout.

</file>

<file= AmE06_G42>

The women arrive at the salon just before eight in the morning. If it were any other day, I'd still be in bed, trying to sink into a few more minutes of sleep. I'd probably still be cursing the neighbor's rooster for waking me up again at dawn. I might even still be groaning about the vegetable dealers who come down the street at three in the morning with their noisy, horse-drawn wagons, or the neighborhood mullah, who warbles out his long, mournful call to prayer at four-thirty. But this is the day of Roshanna's engagement party, so I'm dressed and ready for work. I've already had four cigarettes and two cups of instant coffee, which I had to make by myself because the cook has not yet arrived. This is more of a trial than you might think, since I've barely learned how to boil water in Afghanistan. When I have to do it myself, I put a lit wooden match on each of the burners of the cranky old gas stove, turn one of the knobs, and back off to see which of the burners explodes into flame. Then I settle a pot of water there and pray that whatever bacteria are floating in the Kabul water today are killed by the boiling.

The mother-in-law comes into the salon first, and we exchange the traditional Afghan greeting: we clasp hands and kiss each other's cheeks three times. Roshanna is behind her, a tiny, awkward, blue ghost wearing the traditional burqa that covers her, head to toe, with only a small piece of netting for her to see out the front. But the netting has been pulled crooked, across her nose, and she bumps into the doorway. She laughs and flutters her arms inside the billowing fabric, and two of her sisters-in-law help her navigate her way through the door. Once inside, Roshanna snatches the burqa off and drapes it over the top of one of the hair dryers.

"This was like Taliban days again," she cries, because she hasn't worn the burqa since the Taliban were driven out of Kabul in the fall of 2001. Roshanna usually wears clothes that she sews herself -  brilliant shalwar kameezes or saris in shades of orchid and peach, lime green and peacock blue. Roshanna usually stands out like a butterfly against the gray dustiness of Kabul and even against the other women on the streets, in their mostly drab, dark clothing. But today she observes the traditional behavior of a bride on the day of her engagement party or wedding. She has left her parents' house under cover of burqa and will emerge six hours later wearing her body weight in eye shadow, false eyelashes the size of sparrows, monumentally big hair, and clothes with more bling than a Ferris wheel. In America, most people would associate this look with drag queens sashaying off to a party with a 1950s prom theme. Here in Afghanistan, for reasons I still don't understand, this look conveys the mystique of the virgin.

The cook arrives just behind the women, whispering that she'll make the tea, and Topekai, Baseera, and Bahar, the other beauticians, rush into the salon and take off their head scarves. Then we begin the joyful, gossipy, daylong ordeal of transforming twenty-year-old Roshanna into a traditional Afghan bride. Most salons would charge up to $250 - about half the annual income for a typical Afghan - for the bride's services alone. But I am not only Roshanna's former teacher but also her best friend, even though I'm more than twenty years older. She is my first and best friend in Afghanistan. I love her dearly, so the salon services are just one of my gifts to her.

We begin with the parts of Roshanna that no one will see tonight except her husband. Traditional Afghans consider body hair to be both ugly and unclean, so she must be stripped of all of it except for the long, silky brown hair on her head and her eyebrows. There can be no hair left on her arms, underarms, face, or privates. Her body must be as soft and hairless as that of a prepubescent girl. We lead Roshanna down the corridor to the waxing room - the only one in Afghanistan, I might add - and she grimaces as she sits down on the bed.

"You could have done it yourself at home," I tease her, and the others laugh. Many brides are either too modest or too fearful to have their pubic hair removed by others in a salon, so they do it at home - they either pull it out by hand or rip it out with chewing gum. Either way, the process is brutally painful. Besides, it's hard to achieve the full Brazilian - every pubic hair plucked, front and back -  when you do it on your own, even if you're one of the few women in this country to own a large mirror, as Roshanna does.

"At least you know your husband is somewhere doing this, too," Topekai says with a leer. My girls giggle at this reference to the groom's attention to his own naked body today. He also must remove all of his body hair.

"But he only has to shave it off!" Roshanna wails, then blushes and looks down. I know she doesn't want to appear critical of her new husband, whom she hasn't yet met, in front of her mother-in-law. She doesn't want to give the older woman any reason to find fault with her, and when Roshanna looks back up again, she smiles at me anxiously.

But the mother-in-law seems not to have heard her. She has been whispering outside the door with one of her daughters. When she turns her attention back to the waxing room, she looks at Roshanna with a proud, proprietary air.

The mother-in-law had picked Roshanna out for her son a little more than a year after Roshanna graduated from the first class at the Kabul Beauty School, in the fall of 2003, and opened her own salon. The woman was a distant cousin who came in for a perm. She admired this pretty, plucky, resourceful girl who had been supporting her parents and the rest of her family ever since they fled into Pakistan to escape the Taliban. After she left Roshanna's salon, she started asking around for further details about the girl. She liked what she heard.

Roshanna's father had been a doctor, and the family had led a privileged life until they fled to Pakistan in 1998. There, he was not allowed to practice medicine - a typical refugee story - and had to work as a lowly shoeshine man. By the time they returned to Kabul, he was in such ill health that he couldn't practice medicine. Still, he staunchly carried out his fatherly duties by accompanying Roshanna everywhere to watch over her. The mother-in-law had detected no whiff of scandal about Roshanna, except perhaps her friendship with me. Even that didn't put her off, since foreign women are not held to the same rigorous standards as Afghan women. We are like another gender entirely, able to wander back and forth between the two otherwise separate worlds of men and women; when we do something outrageous, like reach out to shake a man's hand, it's usually a forgivable and expected outrage. The mother-in-law may even have regarded me as an asset, a connection to the wealth and power of America, as nearly all Afghans assume Americans are rich. And we are, all of us, at least in a material sense. Anyway, the mother-in-law was determined to secure Roshanna as the first wife for her elder son, an engineer living in Amsterdam. There was nothing unusual about this. Nearly all first marriages in Afghanistan are arranged, and it usually falls to the man's mother to select the right girl for him. He may take on a second or even third wife later on, but that first virginal lamb is almost as much his mother's as his.

I see that Roshanna is faltering under her mother-in-law's gaze, and I pull all the other women away from the waxing room. "How about highlights today?" I ask the mother-in-law. "My girls do foiling better than anyone between here and New York City."

"Better than in Dubai?" the mother-in-law asks.

"Better than in Dubai," I say. "And a lot cheaper."

Back in the main room of the salon, I make sure the curtains are pulled tight so that no passing male can peek in to see the women bareheaded. That's the kind of thing that could get my salon and the Kabul Beauty School itself closed down. I light candles so that we can turn the overhead lights off. With all the power needed for the machine that melts the wax, the facial lamps, the blow dryers, and the other salon appliances, I don't want to blow a fuse. I put on a CD of Christmas carols. It's the only one I can find, and they won't know the difference anyway. Then I settle the mother-in-law and the members of the bridal party into their respective places, one for a manicure, one for a pedicure, one to get her hair washed. I make sure they all have tea and the latest outdated fashion magazines from the States, then excuse myself with a cigarette. I usually just go ahead and smoke in the salon, but the look on Roshanna's face just before I shut the door to the waxing room has my heart racing. Because she has a terrible secret, and I'm the only one who knows it - for now. Both engagement parties and weddings are lavish events in Afghanistan. Families save money for years and even take on huge debt to make these events as festive as possible, sparing no expense. After all, this is a country with virtually no public party life. There are no nightclubs, no concerts, only a few restaurants - and the ones that have opened since the Taliban left are frequented mostly by Westerners. There are a few movie theaters, but it's primarily men who go to them. If a woman happens to show up, as I once did when I insisted that a male friend take me, then she becomes the show, with every turban in the room turned her way so that the men can gawk at her. There are just about no venues where Afghan men and women dress up and mingle. They don't exactly mingle at engagement parties and weddings, either. At big gatherings, the hundreds of men and women are segregated on two different floors of the hall with two different bands; at smaller gatherings, they are on one floor but separated by a curtain. In both cases, they dress to the nines. When I first came to Kabul, I was amazed by all the stores that sell wedding gowns. There are probably two on every block. Full-size mannequins are lined up in the windows of these stores, heads tilted at a haughty angle, overlooking the street in their colorful dresses spangled with rhinestones and swathed in tulle. They look like giant Barbie dolls -  all very tall and Caucasian-looking - and when I was first here, I memorized the dolls in the windows so I could find my way back to my guesthouse. I pretended that they were guiding me home.

Roshanna's parents shook their heads and declined when the groom's mother first came calling with cakes and imported candies and other gifts to ask for her hand, but they were pleased with the offer. Saying no was only part of the ritual, a way of signaling that their daughter was so precious and beloved that they hated to let her leave the family home. It was also the first step in a bargaining process. For the next few months, the fathers haggled over the size of her cash dowry, over the number of dresses the groom's family would have their tailor make for her and the amount of fabric they'd give her family so they could make their own new clothes, over the value of the gold jewelry the groom's family would give Roshanna.

</file>

<file= AmE06_G43>

On a dim, clattering afternoon in the rainy season, I sat in a crowded living room in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, stupefied by water. The rain drumming the tin roofs of the hillside district was deafening, as if neighbors on rooftops banged with kettles and sticks. The mud yard boiled and popped in the downpour. Through the wide-open front door, I watched arriving visitors leap across stepping-stones slick with clay. At the doorstep of Haregewoin Teferra's two-room brick house - an earthier, leakier dwelling than the modern two-story stucco house she'd once enjoyed - the men took off their hats and shook them and the women wrung out their shawls. Though Haregewoin was sliding further every day from her former middle-class standing, a dozen old friends opted to sit out the cloudburst with her - some as a sign of loyalty, some probably to see what she was going to do next. Despite misgivings about whom they might find among her guests, all entered beaming. They greeted everyone by handshake or raised eyebrows, dripped across the cement floor, and squeezed in to join the inactivity.

Ebullient and round, four foot eight, the hostess slapped across the wet floor in rubber flip-flops. Haregewoin Teferra (Ha-re-ge-woin Te-fare-uh) was a country-born, well-educated, bilingual woman in her late fifties. Her thick hair, bunched under a triangular kerchief, had sprung a few curlicues of gray. Her coffee-dark skin gleamed in the heat. She wore what she always wore: a long, leopard-print cotton skirt with an elastic waist, and a red, short-sleeve T-shirt. As each caller took a seat, Haregewoin hurried back to her chair and pitched forward brightly to hear the news. When she laughed, she clutched her hands to her chest and leaned back; her eyes crinkled shut and her shoulders jiggled.

This was no special occasion or holiday. Some of Haregewoin's old friends had retired from work in retail or the professions; others were underemployed, simply unable - in Ethiopia's listless economy - to fill their days with gainful activity. Still others had hidden reasons for their freedom to visit in the middle of a weekday afternoon.

One guest practically dared new arrivals to sit beside him. "Let's see how far your good manners will get us" was the look on the face of Zewedu Getachew (Zoe-dew Ge-tah-chew) a once-handsome and affluent man. He had been director of construction for a French company and had taught engineering at Addis Ababa University. The shoulders of his khaki overcoat were angrily bunched up less against the rain, it seemed, than against the trick life had played him, the change in his health status that had cost him his job and good name.

Across the continent, people were lining up by the millions on one side or the other of a new binary system, being told they were "positive" or "negative" as if they had turned overnight into protons and electrons and everyone spoke of subatomic physics, rather than of who was going to live and who was going to be shunned, endure terrible suffering, and die.

Only Haregewoin, among many friends who had once hosted Zewedu, still welcomed him. He tilted far back on a metal-legged kitchen chair with his arms crossed on his chest, not expecting to be offered a handshake, nor offering one. Unshaved whiskers darkened his cheeks.

A humble and pretty young woman, wearing a long skirt, seated herself on a low stool to roast fresh coffee beans. She shook them in an iron skillet over a portable stove. Sara had been expelled from college during her sophomore year and denounced by her parents when her persistent cough had turned out to be not only tuberculosis (at which point her parents had bundled her up and raced around with her to the best doctors) but something unspeakable (when they evicted her). The lessons in subservience drilled into most Ethiopian girls did not prepare a young person for finding herself alone in the city; Sara was huddled in a doorway when Haregewoin found her. Haregewoin knew - even if Sara did not - that the college girl's options might soon be a choice between begging or the sex trade.

Thus, on this average weekday in East Africa, a rare scene: a house in which middle-class men and women untouched by the epidemic sat beside men and women who had crossed over the great divide.

The hard rain pummeled the roof, stirred up the courtyard, and sent herds of barefoot little kids galloping past Haregewoin's open door.

I was unhappily wedged in a love seat beside a fierce-looking old woman in a cocoon of homespun cotton. Her dark, pendulous skin and droopy eyes were pulled up and back by a head scarf, giving her an expression of alarmed disapproval. I didn't know if she was frowning against the upward yank of her face or because she had been stuck with me. Over the long hours, we became reluctant familiars, like strangers on an all-night bus trip. We secretly shoved each other over disputed millimeters of territory, but faced forward politely.

The wind sprayed mist through the open door. The whitewashed brick room seemed to dip and sway as if we rode a houseboat whipped by dark waves. The mummified dowager at my side slowly gained ground, as her long cotton shawls began to unwind. 

It had taken me a few weeks to get the hang of this. On the long afternoons when the air fattens to water in Addis Ababa, the city's animal life - goats, sheep, donkeys, stray dogs, woodpeckers, catbirds, swallows - fall asleep standing up in crevices and bowers, or with their heads bowed in the deluge. That is when I long to trudge up the stairs to my room in the tidy Yilma Hotel, peel off my muddy shoes and socks, drink from a liter of bottled water, fall across the bed with Bahru Zewde's History of Modern Ethiopia, and sleep while the tall, sheer curtains drift into the room full of the scent and weight of rain.

But I was stuffed into a love seat in Haregewoin's common room and there was no getting out of it. The group inertia overwhelmed me. "Now?" everyone stirred and asked in bewilderment. "You want to go somewhere now, in this weather?" Some were thinking, I'm sure, "The ferange [white] has to go somewhere now?" My friend and driver, Selamneh Techane (Se-lam-nuh Te-tchen-ay), who was rolled forward with his head resting on his hands, sat up and looked at me with bleary confusion. Every time I tried to stand up, the materfamilias beside me sloughed off another layer of shawls.

Better just to sink down, everyone implied; we'll get through this together. So together we sank through the endless soft drone of the afternoon rains. The demitasse cups of coffee, thick with the sliding brown silt of sugar, somehow knocked one even faster into a somnolent state. The conversation, after we returned our empty cups to a wooden, four-legged tray on the floor, dropped off steeply. When the dim lamp flickered off, nobody thumped it. Nobody turned on the dusty television under its yellowing doily and vase of plastic flowers. (There was nothing to watch on TV: nearly all day, every day, the government-controlled TV station broadcast traditional dancers leaping and shimmying under harsh studio lights.) My impregnable seatmate, in an advanced state of coming unraveled, was snoring. 

Haregewoin's cell phone rang and she answered with a crisp "Allo? Abet?" (Yes?) The coffee table was spread with papers, and there was a landline telephone, which often rang, too. Haregewoin Teferra was not weighed down by wind and rain and drowsiness. Things were happening in the city, even at this torrential hour, and she was deep in negotiations. Or perhaps the message she meant to relay to her old friends was "You see? I am still alive."

She put down the phone for a moment and looked out, calculating.

"What is it?" someone asked, as she knew someone would.

"It is the kebele [a local council, like a county commission]. They ask if I have room to take in a child."

Several visitors chuckled. Disbelief stirred under the surface. Ethiopians - especially the highlanders, the Amhara and the Tigray - are famously sarcastic people, so there probably were a few sly remarks, in a language and of a degree of subtlety impossible for me to understand even in translation. Centuries of living under tyrants have given Ethiopians the gift of double entendre. The hidden speech has a name: säm enna wärq (wax and gold): the säm is the surface meaning and the wärq is the deep or hidden meaning. Skilled practitioners are respected as masters of verbal artistry.

At any rate, of course Haregewoin had no room for another child: the two-room brick house, two small outbuildings, and rusted, bright blue boxcar with a door carved out of it overflowed with children and teens of every size, and there were wistful adult hangers-on, too.

She sat for a moment, holding the receiver against her chest and curling the fingers of one hand around her lips, counting. No one moved, nor did anyone offer to shelter the child in Haregewoin's place. Who knew what his condition would be? Probably sick, maybe contagious, certainly hungry and filthy; barefoot, uneducated, and hysterical. No thank you. While it was appreciated that the neighborhood's administrative unit, the kebele, took an interest, neither the kebele nor the federal government had a stipend to offer for the child's upkeep.

Haregewoin stood up. "I go," she said.

Thinking I'd caught the rhythm of the afternoon, I protested, "Now? You're going somewhere now?" I looked to the others for approval.

But one doesn't ask this of someone who actually has work to do, for real work is hard to find and always respected. Some now must have thought, "Now the ferange doesn't want to go?"

"May I come too?" I asked more humbly.

"Yes. Ishi [Okay]. Come. Please."

Selamneh Techane, the taxi driver, instantly alert, stood up, keys in hand. Haregewoin no longer had a car, much less the two cars of her married life. She gathered her shamma (thick, handwoven shawl) and black handbag and splashed cheerfully into the courtyard.

"Where are we going?" I asked, wading behind her.

"To pick up the child," she called over her shoulder, already hoisting herself into the front seat of Selamneh's tin blue taxi. I got into the back and off we backfired. 

At the intersection of the mountain lane and a paved thoroughfare, we pulled over to pick up a woman in khaki slacks and a zipper windbreaker waiting outside her apartment building. She got into the backseat with me and introduced herself, shaking hands all around. Her name was Gerrida; she was a housewife, married to a police officer. It was she who had just phoned on behalf of the kebele.

"The little boy is Mintesinot [Min-tess-eh-note]. He is about two and a half years old," Gerrida said. He was growing up on a sidewalk near a busy intersection in town. Two months ago, his mother, Emebate (Em-eh-bott-ay) died of pneumonia (an opportunistic infection of AIDS); now his father was very sick, coughing all night, probably from tuberculosis (TB was one of the typical opportunistic infections of AIDS [OIA] invading immune systems weakened by HIV disease). It was evident to everyone in the neighborhood that the young father would soon die.

Gerrida had given charity to the small family over the years, she said, and many others in the district had also tried to help them. Finally, though, with the death of Mintesinot's mother, it was time: the boy required better care than what his homeless, terminally ill father was giving him in plain sight of the entire world, beside the gutter of a busy street, nearly under the hooves of urban herds of goats and donkeys.

"The child is so smiling face," Gerrida turned to assure me in English. "He is wonderful."

I wondered briefly why Gerrida didn't take in the little boy. But if he was indeed an orphan of the unspeakable disease, then she could not.

</file>

<file= AmE06_G44>

Life changes fast.   

Life changes in the instant.

You sit down to dinner and life as you know it ends.

The question of self-pity.

Those were the first words I wrote after it happened. The computer dating on the Microsoft Word file ("Notes on change.doc") reads "May 20, 2004, 11:11 p.m.," but that would have been a case of my opening the file and reflexively pressing save when I closed it. I had made no changes to that file in May. I had made no changes to that file since I wrote the words, in January 2004, a day or two or three after the fact.

For a long time I wrote nothing else.

Life changes in the instant.

The ordinary instant.

At some point, in the interest of remembering what seemed most striking about what had happened, I considered adding those words, "the ordinary instant." I saw immediately that there would be no need to add the word "ordinary," because there would be no forgetting it: the word never left my mind. It was in fact the ordinary nature of everything preceding the event that prevented me from truly believing it had happened, absorbing it, incorporating it, getting past it. I recognize now that there was nothing unusual in this: confronted with sudden disaster we all focus on how unremarkable the circumstances were in which the unthinkable occurred, the clear blue sky from which the plane fell, the routine errand that ended on the shoulder with the car in flames, the swings where the children were playing as usual when the rattlesnake struck from the ivy. "He was on his way home from work - happy, successful, healthy - and then, gone," I read in the account of a psychiatric nurse whose husband was killed in a highway accident. In 1966 I happened to interview many people who had been living in Honolulu on the morning of December 7, 1941; without exception, these people began their accounts of Pearl Harbor by telling me what an "ordinary Sunday morning" it had been. "It was just an ordinary beautiful September day," people still say when asked to describe the morning in New York when American Airlines 11 and United Airlines 175 got flown into the World Trade towers. Even the report of the 9/11 Commission opened on this insistently premonitory and yet still dumbstruck narrative note: "Tuesday, September 11, 2001, dawned temperate and nearly cloudless in the eastern United States."

"And then - gone." In the midst of life we are in death, Episcopalians say at the graveside. Later I realized that I must have repeated the details of what happened to everyone who came to the house in those first weeks, all those friends and relatives who brought food and made drinks and laid out plates on the dining room table for however many people were around at lunch or dinner time, all those who picked up the plates and froze the leftovers and ran the dishwasher and filled our (I could not yet think my) otherwise empty house even after I had gone into the bedroom (our bedroom, the one in which there still lay on a sofa a faded terrycloth XL robe bought in the 1970s at Richard Carroll in Beverly Hills) and shut the door. Those moments when I was abruptly overtaken by exhaustion are what I remember most clearly about the first days and weeks. I have no memory of telling anyone the details, but I must have done so, because everyone seemed to know them. At one point I considered the possibility that they had picked up the details of the story from one another, but immediately rejected it: the story they had was in each instance too accurate to have been passed from hand to hand. It had come from me.

Another reason I knew that the story had come from me was that no version I heard included the details I could not yet face, for example the blood on the living room floor that stayed there until José came in the next morning and cleaned it up.

José. Who was part of our household. Who was supposed to be flying to Las Vegas later that day, December 31, but never went. José was crying that morning as he cleaned up the blood. When I first told him what had happened he had not understood. Clearly I was not the ideal teller of this story, something about my version had been at once too offhand and too elliptical, something in my tone had failed to convey the central fact in the situation (I would encounter the same failure later when I had to tell Quintana), but by the time José saw the blood he understood.

I had picked up the abandoned syringes and ECG electrodes before he came in that morning but I could not face the blood.

In outline.

It is now, as I begin to write this, the afternoon of October 4, 2004.

Nine months and five days ago, at approximately nine o'clock on the evening of December 30, 2003, my husband, John Gregory Dunne, appeared to (or did) experience, at the table where he and I had just sat down to dinner in the living room of our apartment in New York, a sudden massive coronary event that caused his death. Our only child, Quintana, had been for the previous five nights unconscious in an intensive care unit at Beth Israel Medical Center's Singer Division, at that time a hospital on East End Avenue (it closed in August 2004) more commonly known as "Beth Israel North" or "the old Doctors' Hospital," where what had seemed a case of December flu sufficiently severe to take her to an emergency room on Christmas morning had exploded into pneumonia and septic shock. This is my attempt to make sense of the period that followed, weeks and then months that cut loose any fixed idea I had ever had about death, about illness, about probability and luck, about good fortune and bad, about marriage and children and memory, about grief, about the ways in which people do and do not deal with the fact that life ends, about the shallowness of sanity, about life itself. I have been a writer my entire life. As a writer, even as a child, long before what I wrote began to be published, I developed a sense that meaning itself was resident in the rhythms of words and sentences and paragraphs, a technique for withholding whatever it was I thought or believed behind an increasingly impenetrable polish. The way I write is who I am, or have become, yet this is a case in which I wish I had instead of words and their rhythms a cutting room, equipped with an Avid, a digital editing system on which I could touch a key and collapse the sequence of time, show you simultaneously all the frames of memory that come to me now, let you pick the takes, the marginally different expressions, the variant readings of the same lines. This is a case in which I need more than words to find the meaning. This is a case in which I need whatever it is I think or believe to be penetrable, if only for myself.
2.

December 30, 2003, a Tuesday. 

We had seen Quintana in the sixth-floor ICU at Beth Israel North.

We had come home.

We had discussed whether to go out for dinner or eat in.

I said I would build a fire, we could eat in.

I built the fire, I started dinner, I asked John if he wanted a drink.

I got him a Scotch and gave it to him in the living room, where he was reading in the chair by the fire where he habitually sat.

The book he was reading was by David Fromkin, a bound galley of Europe's Last Summer: Who Started the Great War in 1914?

I finished getting dinner, I set the table in the living room where, when we were home alone, we could eat within sight of the fire. I find myself stressing the fire because fires were important to us. I grew up in California, John and I lived there together for twenty-four years, in California we heated our houses by building fires. We built fires even on summer evenings, because the fog came in. Fires said we were home, we had drawn the circle, we were safe through the night. I lit the candles. John asked for a second drink before sitting down. I gave it to him. We sat down. My attention was on mixing the salad.

John was talking, then he wasn't.

At one point in the seconds or minute before he stopped talking he had asked me if I had used single-malt Scotch for his second drink. I had said no, I used the same Scotch I had used for his first drink. "Good," he had said. "I don't know why but I don't think you should mix them." At another point in those seconds or that minute he had been talking about why World War One was the critical event from which the entire rest of the twentieth century flowed.

I have no idea which subject we were on, the Scotch or World War One, at the instant he stopped talking.

I only remember looking up. His left hand was raised and he was slumped motionless. At first I thought he was making a failed joke, an attempt to make the difficulty of the day seem manageable.

I remember saying Don't do that.

When he did not respond my first thought was that he had started to eat and choked. I remember trying to lift him far enough from the back of the chair to give him the Heimlich. I remember the sense of his weight as he fell forward, first against the table, then to the floor. In the kitchen by the telephone I had taped a card with the New York - Presbyterian ambulance numbers. I had not taped the numbers by the telephone because I anticipated a moment like this. I had taped the numbers by the telephone in case someone in the building needed an ambulance.

Someone else.

I called one of the numbers. A dispatcher asked if he was breathing. I said Just come. When the paramedics came I tried to tell them what had happened but before I could finish they had transformed the part of the living room where John lay into an emergency department. One of them (there were three, maybe four, even an hour later I could not have said) was talking to the hospital about the electrocardiogram they seemed already to be transmitting. Another was opening the first or second of what would be many syringes for injection. (Epinephrine? Lidocaine? Procainamide? The names came to mind but I had no idea from where.) I remember saying that he might have choked. This was dismissed with a finger swipe: the airway was clear. They seemed now to be using defibrillating paddles, an attempt to restore a rhythm. They got something that could have been a normal heartbeat (or I thought they did, we had all been silent, there was a sharp jump), then lost it, and started again.

"He's still fibbing," I remember the one on the telephone saying.

"V-fibbing," John's cardiologist said the next morning when he called from Nantucket. "They would have said 'V-fibbing.' V for ventricular."

Maybe they said "V-fibbing" and maybe they did not. Atrial fibrillation did not immediately or necessarily cause cardiac arrest. Ventricular did. Maybe ventricular was the given.

I remember trying to straighten out in my mind what would happen next. Since there was an ambulance crew in the living room, the next logical step would be going to the hospital. It occurred to me that the crew could decide very suddenly to go to the hospital and I would not be ready. I would not have in hand what I needed to take.

</file>

<file= AmE06_G45>

When I told my proudly self-confessed trailer-trash girlfriend that Ned was joining a men's bowling league, she said by way of advice, "Just remember that the difference between your people and my people is that my people bowl without irony." Translation: hide your bourgeois flag, or you'll get the smugness beaten out of you long before they find out you're a woman. 
People who play in leagues for money take bowling seriously, and they don't take kindly to journalists infiltrating their hard-won social lives, especially when the interloper in question hasn't bowled more than five times in her life, and then only for a lark. 
But my ineptitude and oddball status notwithstanding, bowling was the obvious choice. It's the ultimate social sport, and as such it would be a perfect way for Ned to make friends with guys as a guy. Better yet, I wouldn't have to expose any suspicious body parts or break a heavy sweat and risk smearing my beard. 
Still, in practice, it wasn't as easy as it sounded. Taking that first step through the barrier between Ned the character in my head and Ned the real guy among the fellas proved to be more jarring than I could have ever imagined. 
Any smartly dressed woman who has ever walked the gauntlet of construction workers on lunch break or otherwise found herself suddenly alone in unfamiliar male company with her sex on her sleeve will understand a lot of how it felt to walk into that bowling alley for the first time on men's league night. Those guys may not have known that I was a woman, but the minute I opened the door and felt the air of that place waft over me, every part of me did. 
My eyes blurred in panic. I didn't see anything. I remember being aware only of a wave of noise and imagined distrust coming at me from undistinguishable faces. Probably only one or two people actually turned to look, but it felt as if every pair of eyes in the place had landed on me and stuck. 
I'd felt a milder version of this before in barbershops or auto body shops. This palpable unbelonging that came of being the sole female in an all-male environment. And the feeling went right through my disguise and my nerve and told me that I wasn't fooling anyone. 
This was a men's club, and men's clubs have an aura about them, a mostly forbidding aura that hangs in the air. Females tend to respond to it viscerally, as they are meant to. The unspoken signs all say no girls allowed and keep out or, more idly, enter at your own risk. 
As a woman, you don't belong. You're not wanted. And every part of you knows it, and is just begging you to get up and leave. 
And I nearly did leave, even though I'd only made it two steps inside the door and hadn't even been able to look up yet for fear of meeting anyone's eyes. After standing there frozen for several minutes, I had just about worked up the gumption to retreat and call off the whole thing when the league manager saw me. 
"Are you Ned?" he asked, rushing up to me. "We've been waiting for you." 
He was a tiny, wizened stick figure, with a five-day growth of gray stubble on his chin, a crew cut to match, a broken front tooth and a black watch cap. 
I had called earlier in the week to find out about the league, and he'd told me what time to show up and which guy to ask for when I got there. I was late already, and my nervous hesitations had made me later. 
"Yeah," I croaked, trying to keep my voice down and my demeanor unshaken. 
"Great," he said, grabbing me by the arm. "C'mon and get yourself some shoes and a ball." 
"Okay," I said, following his lead. 
There was no getting out of it now. 
He walked me over to the front desk and left me there with the attendant, who was helping another bowler. As I stood waiting, I was able for the first time to focus on something beyond myself and my fear of immediate detection. I looked at the rows of cubbyholes behind the desk, all with those familiar red, blue and white paneled shoes stuffed in them in pairs. Seeing them comforted me a little. They reminded me of the good times I'd always had bowling with friends as a kid, and I felt a little surge of carelessness at the prospect of making a fool out of myself. So what if I couldn't bowl? This was an experiment about people, not sport, and nobody had yet pointed and laughed. Maybe I could do this after all. I got my shoes, took them over to a row of orange plastic bucket chairs and sat down to change. This gave me a few more minutes to take in the scene, a few more minutes to breathe and watch people's eyes to see if they followed me, or if they passed over me and moved on. 
A quick scan satisfied me that nobody seemed suspicious. 
So far so good. 
I'd chosen well in choosing a bowling alley. It was just like every other bowling alley I'd ever seen; it felt familiar. The decor was lovingly down at heel and generic to the last detail, like something out of a mail-order kit, complete with the cheap plywood paneling and the painted slogans on the walls that said: Bowling is Family Fun. There were the usual shabby cartoons of multicolored balls and pins flying through the air, and the posted scores of top bowlers. The lanes, too, were just as I remembered them, long and glistening with that mechanized maw scraping at the end. And then, of course, there were the smells; cigarette smoke, varnish, machine oil, leaky toilets, old candy wrappers and accumulated public muck all commingling to produce that signature bowling alley scent that envelops you the moment you enter and clings to you long after. 
As far as I could see, only one thing had really changed in the last fifteen years. Scoring wasn't done by hand anymore. Instead, everything was computerized. You just entered the names and averages of each player on the console at your table, and the computer did the rest, registering scores, calculating totals and flashing them on monitors above each lane. As I scoped the room, I noticed the team captains all busily attending to their monitors. Meanwhile their teammates were strapping on wrist braces and dusting their palms with rosin, or taking advantage of a few last minutes of pregame practice. 
I could see then that this was going to be laughable. They were all throwing curve balls that they'd been perfecting for twenty years. I couldn't even remember how to hold a bowling ball, much less wing it with any precision. And that was the least of my worries. I was in drag in a well-lighted place, surrounded by some sixty-odd guys who would have made me very nervous under normal circumstances. 
I was dressed as down and dirty as Ned got in a plaid shirt, jeans and a baseball cap pulled low over the most proletarian glasses I could find. But despite my best efforts, I was still far too scrubbed and tweedy amid these genuine articles to pass for one of them. Even at my burliest, next to them I felt like a petunia strapped to a Popsicle stick. 
I was surrounded by men who had cement dust in their hair and sawdust under their fingernails. They had nicotine-sallowed faces that looked like ritual masks, and their hands were as tough and scarred as falcon gloves. These were men who, as one of them told me later, had been shoveling shit their whole lives. 
Looking at them I thought: it's at times like these when the term "real man" really hits home with you, and you understand in some elemental way that the male animal is definitely not a social construct. 
I didn't see how this could possibly work. If I was passing, I was passing as a boy, not a man, and a candy boy at that. But if they were judging me, you wouldn't have known it from the way they greeted me. 
The league manager led me toward the table where my new teammates were sitting. As we approached, they all turned to face me. 
Jim, my team captain, introduced himself first. He was about five feet six, a good four inches shorter than I am, with a lightweight build, solid shoulders, but skinny legs and oddly small feet -- certainly smaller than mine, which have now topped out at an alarming men's eleven and a half. This made me feel a little better. He actually came across as diminutive. He wore his baseball cap high on his head, and a football jersey that draped over his jeans almost to his knees. He had a mustache and a neat goatee. Both were slightly redder than his light brown head of hair, and effectively hid the boyish vulnerability of his mouth. He was thirty-three, but in bearing, he seemed younger. He wasn't a threat to anyone and he knew it, as did everyone who met him. But he wasn't a weak link either. He was the scrappy guy in the pickup basketball game. 
As he extended his arm to shake my hand, I extended mine, too, in a sweeping motion. Our palms met with a soft pop, and I squeezed assertively the way I'd seen men do at parties when they gathered in someone's living room to watch a football game. From the outside, this ritual had always seemed overdone to me. Why all the macho ceremony? But from the inside it was completely different. There was something so warm and bonded in this handshake. Receiving it was a rush, an instant inclusion in a camaraderie that felt very old and practiced. 
It was more affectionate than any handshake I'd ever received from a strange woman. To me, woman-to-woman introductions often seem fake and cold, full of limp gentility. I've seen a lot of women hug one another this way, too, sometimes even women who've known each other for a long time and think of themselves as being good friends. 
They're like two backward magnets pushed together by convention. Their arms and cheeks meet, and maybe the tops of their shoulders, but only briefly, the briefest time politeness will allow. It's done out of habit and for appearances, a hollow, even resentful, gesture bred into us and rarely felt. 
This solidarity of sex was something that feminism tried to teach us, and something, it now seemed to me, that men figured out and perfected a long time ago. On some level men didn't need to learn or remind themselves that brotherhood was powerful. It was just something they seemed to know. 
When this man whom I'd never met before shook my hand he gave me something real. He included me. But most of the women I'd ever shaken hands with or even hugged had held something back, as if we were in constant competition with each other, or secretly suspicious, knowing it but not knowing it, and going through the motions all the same. In my view bra burning hadn't changed that much. 
Next I met Allen. His greeting echoed Jim's. It had a pronounced positive force behind it, a presumption of goodwill that seemed to mark me as a buddy from the start, no questions asked, unless or until I proved otherwise. "Hey, man," he said. "Glad to see you." 
He was about Jim's height and similarly built. He had the same goatee and mustache, too. He was older, though, and looked it. At forty-four, he was a study in substance abuse and exposure to the elements.

</file>

<file= AmE06_G46>

My mother didn't try to stab my father until I was six, but she must have shown signs of oddness before that. Her detached gaze, the secret smile. Something.

We were living in a two-room apartment over the dance floor of a nightclub. My father was performing in the show that played below us every night. We could hear the musical numbers through the floorboards, and we had heard the closing number at midnight. My father should have come back from work hours ago.

My mother had asked me to stay up with her. She was lonely. We played gin rummy as the band below us played "Brazil" and couples danced through the haze of booze and cigarette smoke late into the night.

Finally, he came in. She jumped up, furious. "Where have you been?" she screamed. Even at the age of six, I could understand her anger. He worked with half-naked women and came home late. It wasn't crazy to be suspicious.

She told him she knew he was sleeping with someone. He denied it. "You are!" she screamed. He denied it again, this time impatiently.

"You son of a bitch!" she said. She picked up a paring knife and lunged at him, trying to plunge it into his face. This was crazy.

He caught her by the wrist. "What's the matter with you?"

They struggled over the knife as I pleaded with them to stop. When he forced her to drop it, I picked up the knife and rammed it point first into the table so it couldn't be used again.

A few weeks later, the three of us were at the small table by the kitchenette, eating.

I was playing with the knives and forks in the silverware tray. I found a paring knife with a bent point and I looked up at my mother: "Remember when I stuck the knife in the table?"

"When?"

"When you wanted to stab Daddy?"

She smiled. "Don't be silly. I never did that. I love Daddy. You just imagined that." She laughed a lighthearted but deliberate laugh. I looked over at my father, who looked away and said nothing.

I knew what I saw, but I wasn't supposed to speak about it. I didn't understand why. I didn't understand how this worked yet.

Gradually, I came to learn that not speaking about things is how we operated. When we would visit another family, my mother was afraid I might embarrass them by calling attention to something like dust balls or carpet stains. As we stood at the door, waiting for them to answer our knock, she would turn to me, completely serious, and say, "Don't notice anything."

We had a strange list of things you didn't notice or talk about. The night the country was voting on Roosevelt's fourth term, my father came back from the local schoolhouse and I asked him whom he'd voted for. "Well," he said with a little smile, "we have a secret ballot in this country." I didn't ask him again, because I could see it was one of the things you don't talk about, but I couldn't figure out why there was a law against telling your children how you voted.

One thing we never talked about was mental illness. The words were never spoken between my father and me. This wasn't the policy just in our own family. At that time, mental illness was more like a curse than a disease, and it was shameful for the whole family to admit it existed. Somehow it would discredit your parents, your cousins, and everyone close to you. You just kept quiet about it.

How much easier it could have been for my father and me to face her illness together; to compare notes, to figure out strategies. Instead, each of us was on his own. And I alternated between thinking her behavior was his fault and thinking it was mine. Once I learned there was such a thing as sin and I entered adolescence and came across a sin I really liked, I began to be convinced that my sins actually caused her destructive episodes. They appeared to coincide. This wasn't entirely illogical, because they both tended to occur every day. I was convinced I held a magic wand that could damage the entire household.

Like the earliest humans, I put together my observations and came up with a picture of how things worked that was as ingenious as it was cockeyed. And like the earliest people, in my early days I was full of watching and figuring. I was curious from the first moments - not as a pastime, but as a way to survive.

As I sat at the kitchen table that night, looking at the paring knife with the bent point, I was trying to figure out why I was supposed to not know what I knew. I was already wondering: Why are things like this? What's really happening here?

There was plenty about my world to stimulate my curiosity. From my earliest days, I was standing off on the side, watching, trying to understand a world that fascinated me. It was a world of coarse jokes and laughter late into the night, a world of gambling and drinking and the frequent sight of the buttocks, thighs, and breasts of naked women.

It seemed to me that the world was very interesting. How could you not want to explore a place like this?
Chapter2
NAKED LADIES
I was three years old. It was one in the morning, and I was walking down the aisle of a smoky railroad car. I liked the feel of the train as it lurched and roared under my feet. My father was in burlesque, and he and my mother and I traveled from town to town with a company of comics, straight men, chorus girls, strippers, and talking women. As I moved down the aisle, not much taller than the armrests, I watched the card playing, the dice games, the drinking and joking, late into the night.

I would fall asleep on a makeshift bed made of two train seats jammed together. A few hours later, my mother would wake me as the train pulled into Buffalo or Pittsburgh or Philly. I'd sit up groggily and gaze out the window as she pulled on my woolen coat and rubbed my face where the basket weave of the cane seat had left a pink latticework on my cheek. As the train crept slowly into the town, I could see the water towers, the factories, the freight trains jockeying across the rail yards in the gray early light. This would be the first sight I'd have of every city we'd travel to, and my heart would beat with excitement.

And then, five or six times a day - at almost every show - I would be standing in the wings, watching. There would be an opening number in which my father stood on the side of the stage and sang while chorus girls danced and showed their breasts. The person who performed this job in burlesque was called, with cheerful clarity, "the tit singer."

My father sang well, and he was a handsome man. When he walked down the street, people sometimes mistook him for Cary Grant and asked for his autograph. But when he was onstage as the tit singer, no one looked at him.

After his song, my father would be the straight man for a comic. Or, there might be a sketch with a couple of comics and a talking woman. A talking woman was a dancer or stripper who could also do lines. When a woman was new to the company, the comics would ask, "Can she talk?"

Then there would be a strip. The lights would go out, and over the loudspeaker a voice would announce: "The Casino Theater is proud to present . . . Miss Fifi."

In the pit, the drummer would beat out a rhythm while she kept time with her pelvis. She would slip off a piece of clothing and toss it into the wings. It would land a couple of feet from me, and a wardrobe mistress would pick it up and fold it carefully. The stripper would walk around the stage in time to the music and finally pull off the rest of her clothing. Except for some fringe where her underwear would go, she was naked. Blackout.

The muscle in her hip would graze my shoulder as she brushed by me. She would grab a piece of her costume and hold it against her bare chest as she walked briskly up the stairs to her dressing room.

Upstairs was where heaven was.

The chorus girls always brought me up to their dressing room. They talked with me; they patted my cheek and combed my hair. They were affectionate. I was like a pet. When they had to change costumes, they would say, "Okay, Allie, turn your back now." While they changed, I stood with my face against the wall where their costumes were hanging. My face was buried in their silk clothes, and the smell of their sweat and perfume filled my nostrils. I heard the sound of their clothing sliding on and off their bodies. All of this was far more interesting for a three-year-old than you might imagine.

But I wasn't only the dancers' pet; I was a plaything for the whole company.

When I was six months old, the comics thought it would be funny to bring me out in a high chair in a schoolroom sketch. As they told me this story later, all the great comics were in this sketch: Red Buttons, Phil Silvers, Rags Ragland. I don't know now if all these comics were actually in the same sketch; the story must have grown with each telling. They said they put a school bell in front of me on the high chair, and totally by accident, I would manage to bang on it every time one of them was getting to a punch line. "You upstaged the greatest comics in burlesque," they told me.

When I was two, the company was playing a theater in Toronto. A photographer from the Toronto Daily Star came backstage, and my father got the idea that if he posed me in a way that made me look as if I were smoking a pipe, the paper would be sure to print the picture and the burlesque company would get some unusual publicity. They dressed me up in my woolen suit and posed me gravely holding a pipe with tobacco in it. They seem to have invented a new name for me, too. I was born Alphonso D'Abruzzo, but that day I was Alphonse Robert Alda, "Ali" for short. The newspaper printed the picture and ran a story under it that, sixty-seven years later, is a gold mine of information on how not to raise a child.

child of two smokes pipe

once broke mother's nose

Alphonse Robert Alda, at the age of two years and three months, finds solace from worldly cares in a briar pipe.

I don't remember my mother ever telling me I had broken her nose, so this may have been invented to demonstrate how big and strong I was or maybe to account for a slight bend in her nose she wasn't fond of. As for smoking, according to the myth dreamed up by my father, I had reached up and taken the pipe out of his mouth a year earlier. My mother was quoted as saying they'd hoped I'd get sick and never smoke again but that I liked it and had continued to smoke the pipe. Then they invented a "specialist" from New York whom they said they had consulted. "He told us," my mother was quoted as saying, "provided moderation was shown, the smoking might not do Ali as much harm as the psychological aspect of denying him."

</file>

<file= AmE06_G47>

As far as I know, the only evidence supporting the theory that Julia Child first made Potage Parmentier during a bad bout of ennui is her own recipe for it. She writes that Potage Parmentier- which is just a Frenchie way of saying potato soup - "smells good, tastes good, and is simplicity itself to make." It is the first recipe in the first book she ever wrote. She concedes that you can add carrots or broccoli or green beans if you want, but that seems beside the point, if what you're looking for is simplicity itself. 

Simplicity itself. It sounds like poetry, doesn't it? It sounds like just what the doctor ordered. 

It wasn't what my doctor ordered, though. My doctor - my gynecologist, to be specific - ordered a baby. 

"There are the hormonal issues in your case, with the PCOS, you know about that already. And you are pushing thirty, after all. Look at it this way - there will never be a better time." This was not the first time I'd heard this. It had been happening for a couple of years now, ever since I'd sold some of my eggs for $7,500 in order to pay off credit card debt. Actually, that was the second time I'd "donated"- a funny way of putting it, since when you wake up from the anesthesia less a few dozen ova and get dressed, there's a check for thousands of dollars with your name on it waiting at the receptionist's desk. The first time was five years ago, when I was twenty-four, impecunious and fancyfree. I hadn't planned on doing it twice, but three years later I got a call from a doctor with an unidentifiable European accent who asked me if I'd be interested in flying down to Florida for a second go-round, because "our clients were very satisfied with the results of your initial donation." Egg donation is still a new enough technology that our slowly evolving legal and etiquette systems have not yet quite caught up; nobody knows if egg donators are going to be getting sued for child support ten years down the line or what. So discussions on the subject tend to be knotted with imprecise pronouns and euphemisms. The upshot of this phone call, though, was that there was a little me running around Tampa or somewhere, and the little me's parents were happy enough with him or her that they wanted a matched set. The honest part of me wanted to shout, "Wait, no - when they start hitting puberty you'll regret this!" But $7,500 is a lot of money. 

Anyway, it was not until the second harvesting (they actually call it "harvesting"; fertility clinics, it turns out, use a lot of vaguely apocalyptic terms) that I found out I had polycystic ovarian syndrome, which sounds absolutely terrifying, but apparently just meant that I was going to get hairy and fat and I'd have to take all kinds of drugs to conceive. Which means, I guess, that I haven't heard my last of crypto-religious obstetric jargon. 

So. Ever since I was diagnosed with this PCOS, two years ago, doctors have been obsessing over my childbearing prospects. I've even been given the Pushing Thirty speech by my avuncular, white-haired orthopedist (what kind of twenty-nine-year-old has a herniated disk, I ask you?). 

At least my gynecologist had some kind of business in my private parts. Maybe that's why I heroically did not start bawling immediately when he said this, as he was wiping off his speculum. Once he left, however, I did fling one of my navy faille pumps at the place where his head had been just a moment before. The heel hit the door with a thud, leaving a black scuff mark, then dropped onto the counter, where it knocked over a glass jar of cotton swabs. I scooped up all the Q-tips from the counter and the floor and started to stuff them back into the jar before realizing I'd probably gotten them all contaminated, so then I shoved them into a pile next to an apothecary jar full of fresh needles and squeezed myself back into the vintage forties suit I'd been so proud of that morning when Nate from work told me it made my waist look small while subtly eyeing my cleavage, but which on the ride from lower Manhattan to the Upper East Side on an un-air-conditioned 6 train had gotten sweatstained and rumpled. Then I slunk out of the room, fifteen-buck co-pay already in hand, the better to make my escape before anyone discovered I'd trashed the place. 

As soon as I got belowground, I knew there was a problem. Even before I reached the turnstiles, I heard a low, subterranean rumble echoing off the tiled walls, and noticed more than the usual number of aimless-looking people milling about. A tangy whiff of disgruntlement wafted on the fetid air. Every once in a great while the "announcement system" would come on and "announce" something, but none of these spatterings of word salad resulted in the arrival of a train, not for a long, long time. Along with everyone else, I leaned out over the platform edge, hoping to see the pale yellow of a train's headlight glinting off the track, but the tunnel was black. I smelled like a rained-upon, nervous sheep. My feet, in their navy heels with the bows on the toe, were killing me, as was my back, and the platform was so crammed with people that before long I began to worry someone was going to fall off the edge onto the tracks-possibly me, or maybe the person I was going to push during my imminent psychotic break. 

But then, magically, the crowd veered away. For a split second I thought the stink coming off my suit had reached a deadly new level, but the wary, amused looks on the faces of those edging away weren't focused on me. I followed their gaze to a plug of a woman, her head of salt-and-pepper hair shorn into the sort of crew cut they give to the mentally disabled, who had plopped down on the concrete directly behind me. I could see the whorls of her cowlick like a fingerprint, feel the tingle of invaded personal space against my shins. The woman was muttering to herself fiercely. Commuters had vacated a swath of platform all around the loon as instinctually as a herd of wildebeests evading a lioness. I was the only one stuck in the dangerous blank circle, the lost calf, the old worn-out cripple who couldn't keep up. 

The loon started smacking her forehead with the heel of her palm. "Fuck!" she yelled. "Fuck! FUCK!" 

I couldn't decide whether it would be safer to edge back into the crowd or freeze where I was. My breathing grew shallow as I turned my eyes blankly out across the tracks to the uptown platform, that old subway chameleon trick. 

The loon placed both palms down on the concrete in front of her and- CRACK! - smacked her forehead hard on the ground. 

This was a little much even for the surrounding crowd of New Yorkers, who of course all knew that loons and subways go together like peanut butter and chocolate. The sickening noise of skull on concrete seemed to echo in the damp air- as if she was using her specially evolved resonant brainpan as an instrument to call the crazies out from every far-underground branch of the city. Everybody flinched, glancing around nervously. With a squeak I hopped back into the multitude. The loon had a smudgy black abrasion right in the middle of her forehead, like the scuff mark my shoe had left on my gynecologist's door, but she just kept screeching. The train pulled in, and I connived to wiggle into the car the loon wasn't going into. 

It was only once I was in the car, squeezed in shoulder to shoulder, the lot of us hanging by one hand from the overhead bar like slaughtered cows on the trundling train, that it came to me - as if some omnipotent God of City Dwellers were whispering the truth in my ear - that the only two reasons I hadn't joined right in with the loon with the gray crew cut, beating my head and screaming "Fuck!" in primal syncopation, were (1) I'd be embarrassed and (2) I didn't want to get my cute vintage suit any dirtier than it already was. Performance anxiety and a dry-cleaning bill; those were the only things keeping me from stark raving lunacy. 

That's when I started to cry. When a tear dropped onto the pages of the New York Post that the guy sitting beneath me was reading, he just blew air noisily through his nose and turned to the sports pages. 

When I got off the subway, after what seemed like years, I called Eric from a pay phone at the corner of Bay Ridge and Fourth Avenue. 

"Hey. Did you get anything for dinner?" Eric made that little sucking-in-through-his-teeth sound he always makes when he thinks he's about to get in trouble. "Was I supposed to?" 

"Well, I told you I'd be late because of my doctor's appointment -" "Right, right, sorry. I just, I didn't . . . You want me to order something in, or-" 

"Don't worry about it. I'll pick up something or other." "But I'm going to start packing just as soon as the NewsHour's done, promise!" 

It was nearly eight o'clock, and the only market open in Bay Ridge was the Korean deli on the corner of Seventieth and Third. I must have looked a sight, standing around in the produce aisle in my bedraggled suit, my face tracked with mascara, staring like a catatonic. I couldn't think of a thing that I wanted to eat. I grabbed some potatoes, a bunch of leeks, some Hotel Bar butter. 

I felt dazed and somehow will-less, as if I was following a shopping list someone else had made. I paid, walked out of the shop, and headed for the bus stop, but just missed the B69. There wouldn't be another for a half hour at least, at this time of night, so I started the ten-block walk home, carrying a plastic bag bristling with spiky dark leek bouquets. 

It wasn't until almost fifteen minutes later, as I was walking past the Catholic boys' school on Shore Road one block over from our apartment building, that I realized that I'd managed, unconsciously, to buy exactly the ingredients for Julia Child's Potage Parmentier. 
When I was a kid, my dad used to love to tell the story about finding five-year-old Julie curled up in the back of his copper-colored Datsun ZX immersed in a crumpled back issue of the Atlantic Monthly. He told that one to all the guys at his office, and to the friends he and my mom went out to dinner with, and to all of the family who weren't born again and likely to disapprove. (Of the Atlantic, not Z-cars.) 

I think the point behind this was that I'd been singled out as an early entrant to the ranks of the intellectually superior. And since I was awful at ballet and tap dancing, after all, always the last one to make it up the rope in gym class, a girl neither waifish nor charming in owlish red-rimmed glasses, I took my ego-petting where I could get it. But the not-very-highbrow truth of the matter was that the reading was how I got my ya-yas out. 

For the sake of my bookish reputation I upgraded to Tolstoy and Steinbeck before I understood them, but my dark secret was that really, I preferred the junk. The Dragonriders of Pern, Flowers in the Attic, The Clan of the Cave Bear. This stuff was like my stash of Playboys under the mattress.

</file>

<file= AmE06_G48>

"Can I tell you something weird?" he asked. This probably isn't a valid question, because one can never say no to such an inquiry. But this is what he asked me.
"Of course," I said in response. "Always."
"Okay, well...great. That's great."
He collected his thoughts for fourteen seconds.
"Something is happening to me," he said. "I keep thinking about something that happened to me a long time ago. Years ago. Like, this thing happened to me in eighth fucking grade. This is a situation I hadn't even thought about for probably ten or fifteen years. But then I saw a documentary that reexamined the Challenger explosion, and this particular event had happened around that same time. And what's disturbing is that  -  now  -  I find myself thinking about this particular afternoon constantly. I have dreams about it. Every time I get drunk or stoned, I inevitably find myself sitting in a dark room, replaying the sequence of the events in my mind, over and over again. And the details I remember from this 1986 afternoon are unfathomably intense. Nothing is missing and nothing is muddled. And I'm starting to believe  -  and this, I suppose, is the weird part  -  that maybe this day was the most important day of my entire life, and that everything significant about my personality was created on this one particular afternoon. I'm starting to suspect that this memory is not merely about a certain day of my life; this memory is about the day, if you get my meaning."
"I think I do," I said. "Obviously, I'm intrigued."
"I thought you would be," he replied. "In fact, that's why I specifically wanted to talk to you about this problem. Because the story itself isn't amazing. It's not like my best friend died on this particular day. It's not like a wolf showed up at my school and mauled a bunch of teachers. It's not a sad story, and it's not even a funny story. It's about a junior-high basketball game."
"A junior-high basketball game."
"Yes."
"The most important day in your life was a junior-high basketball game."
"Yes."
"And you're realizing this now, as a thirty-three-year-old chemical engineer with two children."
"Yes."
I attempted to arch my eyebrows to suggest skepticism, but the sentiment did not translate.
"Obviously, this story isn't really about basketball," he said. "I suppose it's kind of about basketball, because I was playing a basketball game on this particular afternoon. However, I have a feeling that the game itself is secondary."
"It always is," I said.
"Exactly. So, here's the situation: when I was in eighth grade, our basketball team was kind of terrible. You only play a ten-game schedule when you're in eighth grade, and we lost four of our first six games, a few of them by wide margins. I was probably the best player on the team, and I sucked. We were bad. We knew we were bad. And on the specific afternoon I'm recalling, we were playing the Fairmount Pheasants. We had played Fairmount in the first game of the year, and they beat us by twenty-two points. Fairmount only had three hundred people in their whole goddamn town, but they had the best eighth-grade basketball team in rural southeast North Dakota that winter."
"That's tremendous," I said.
"They had a power forward named Tyler RaGoose. He was the single most unstoppable Pheasant. He was wiry and swarthy and strong, and he almost had a mustache; every great eighth-grade basketball player almost has a mustache. The rumor was that he could dunk a volleyball and that he had already fucked two girls, one of whom was a sophomore. It seemed plausible. They also had a precocious, flashy seventh grader who played point guard  -  I think his name was Trevor Monroe. He was one of those kids who was just naturally good at everything: he played point guard in the winter, shortstop in the summer, and quarterback in the fall. I'm not sure if Fairmount had a golf course, but I assume he was the best chipper in town if they did. They had this guy named Kenwood Dotzenrod who always looked sleepy, but he could get fouled whenever he felt like it. That was his gift  -  he knew how to get fouled. Do you remember Adrian Dantley? That stoic dude who played for the Utah Jazz and the Detroit Pistons with a really powerful ass? Kenwood Dotzenrod was like a white, thirteen-year-old Adrian Dantley. It seemed like he shot twelve free throws every night. These were just perfect, flawless Pheasants. And it's hard to understand how that happened, because  -  once those kids got into high school  -  Fairmount defined mediocrity. They were never better than a .500 club. But as junior-high kids, they were a potato sack full of wolverines. They were going to humiliate us, and everybody in my school seemed to know this.
"Because we were junior-high kids, the game started right after school. It was scheduled for 4:15 p.m. That school day was interminable. I was wearing a gray acrylic sweater and cargo pants, because our coach didn't let us wear jeans on game days. It was a different era, I suppose  -  no rap music. I remember walking around the school in those idiotic cargo pants, eating corndogs at lunch, pretending to care about earth science, and just longing for 4:15. Because I had this irrefutable, unexplainable premonition that we were going to play great that day. I didn't think we would necessarily win, because Fairmount was better and they had the mustache dude, and we were lazy, underfed losers. But I still had a vague sense that we would not humiliate ourselves. We would execute and hustle, and the game would be close. This feeling was almost spiritual. And I was not the kind of kid who looked on the bright side of anything; I was never optimistic about any element of my eighth-grade life. But something made me certain that good things were on the horizon. We started warming up for the game at 3:55, and I can recall standing in the lay-up line and looking at the Pheasants at the other end of the court. Half of their team had spiky rattail haircuts, which was the style of the time. It was a different era, I suppose  -  Don Johnson and David Lee Roth defined masculinity. The gym felt especially hot and especially dry. I couldn't make myself sweat. I remember thinking, Our school needs a humidifier. Our cheerleaders weren't even paying attention to us. They were probably looking at Tyler RaGoose's potential mustache."
"So did your team play well?" I asked. "Was your intuition correct?"
"Fuck, yeah," he responded immediately. "We couldn't have played any better than we did. I mean, remember: we were junior-high kids. We were just little guys  -  half our squad weighed less than one hundred pounds. I still didn't have pubic hair. But we played like basketball geniuses. Fairmount scored on the first possession of the game, we scored on the second possession, and it just went back and forth like that for the entire first half. Nobody on either team seemed to miss. Do you recall when Villanova upset Georgetown in the 1985 NCAA championship game? It was like we were all possessed by the spirit of Villanova. This was unlike any junior-high game I've ever witnessed, before or since. It was better than half of the shit they show on ESPN2. That Trevor Monroe kid  -  this spiky-haired little elf who was maybe five feet tall  -  knocked down three twenty-one-foot jump shots in a row. My memories of this are all so goddamn vivid. It actually freaks me out, because I barely remember anything else from that winter; I barely remember anything else from that entire school year. But I somehow recall that the score was 35 to 33 in Fairmount's favor with ten seconds left in the first half, and somebody from our team dribbled the ball off his own foot. Trevor Monroe rushed the rock up the court and threw a blind bounce pass to a kid named Billy Barnaby in the right corner; Barnaby was a 4.00 student, and he was probably the only fourteen-year-old boy in Fairmount who actively liked poetry. Girls felt safe around him  -  he looked like Topher Grace. I jumped in his direction, but Barnaby threw in a fadeaway jumper at the buzzer, pushing Fairmount's halftime lead to four points. When the rock nestled in the net, Barnaby awkwardly clapped his hands and sprinted into the visitors' locker room with one fist in the air. It was like he had just blown up a federal building with the White Panthers. It was intense.
"Now, the second half was more like a standard junior-high basketball game. There was less scoring, and we behaved like normal eighth graders. Players would fuck up on occasion. But every possession was still akin to the Bataan death march. I don't think I have ever wanted anything as much as I wanted to win that game. I mean, what else in my life did I care about? I was fourteen. What else mattered to me? Nothing. There was nothing I cared about as much as playing basketball against other eighth graders. I had no perspective. I suppose I liked my bedroom, and I liked girls who owned Def Leppard cassettes, and I liked being Catholic. I liked eating gravy. But this game felt considerably more important than all of those things. If I were to play in a Super Bowl or the World Series tomorrow night, it wouldn't feel as monumental as this event felt twenty years ago. I could not comprehend any valuable existence beyond this specific basketball game; my eighth-grade worldview was profoundly telescopic. I suspect this depth of emotion can only happen when you're that particular age."
"And I assume this realization is what you were referring to earlier," I said. "I assume this realization is why that afternoon was the most important afternoon of your life: it was the cognition of your deepest desire."
"No," he said. "That's not it. That's not even close. The thing is, it started to look like this game was going to go into overtime. It was 48 to 48. Fairmount had the ball, and the semi-mustachioed RaGoose drove the baseline and scored with maybe twenty seconds remaining. We could not contain his machismo. So now we were behind, 50 to 48. Still, I believed we would somehow tie things up. I was certain we would score; for the whole game, we had always managed to score when we truly needed to score. But this time, we didn't. We turned it over. We were trying to feed our post player, and the ball ricocheted off his paw. So now the Pheasants had the ball with a two-point lead, and I had to intentionally foul Kenwood Dotzenrod with five seconds remaining. It was the only way to stop the clock. It was an act of desperation. I was desperate. It was the most desperate thing I've ever done."
"So...you lost," I said. "And I gather that this must be one of those stories about dealing with heartache: this was when you realized that losing can be more meaningful than winning."
"No," he said. "We ended up winning this game. Kenwood Dotzenrod missed his free throw. He shot a line drive at the front of the iron and the ball bounced straight into my hands; I called time-out while I was catching it. Our coach designed a play that didn't work, but that aforementioned post player  -  Cubby Jones, a semi-fundamentalist Christian who's now a high-school math teacher  -  got fouled at midcourt with one second remaining. One of the lesser Pheasants stupidly went for the steal  -  remember, we were just eighth graders. We were all stupid.

</file>

<file= AmE06_G49>

We went there for everything we needed. we went there when thirsty, of course, and when hungry, and when dead tired. We went there when happy, to celebrate, and when sad, to sulk. We went there after weddings and funerals, for something to settle our nerves, and always for a shot of courage just before. We went there when we didn't know what we needed, hoping someone might tell us. We went there when looking for love, or sex, or trouble, or for someone who had gone missing, because sooner or later everyone turned up there. Most of all we went there when we needed to be found. 

My personal list of needs was long. An only child, abandoned by my father, I needed a family, a home, and men. Especially men. I needed men as mentors, heroes, role models, and as a kind of masculine counterweight to my mother, grandmother, aunt and five female cousins with whom I lived. The bar provided me with all the men I needed, and one or two men who were the last thing I needed. 

Long before it legally served me, the bar saved me. It restored my faith when I was a boy, tended me as a teenager, and when I was a young man the bar embraced me. While I fear that we're drawn to what abandons us, and to what seems most likely to abandon us, in the end I believe we're defined by what embraces us. Naturally I embraced the bar right back, until one night the bar turned me away, and in that final abandonment the bar saved my life. 

There had always been a bar on that corner, by one name or another, since the beginning of time, or the end of Prohibition, which were the same thing in my hard-drinking hometown - Manhasset, Long Island. In the 1930s the bar was a stop-off for movie stars on their way to the nearby yacht clubs and posh ocean resorts. In the 1940s the bar was a haven for soldiers coming home from the wars. In the 1950s the bar was a lounge for greasers and their poodle-skirted girlfriends. But the bar didn't become a landmark, a patch of hallowed ground, until 1970, when Steve bought the place and renamed it Dickens. Above the door Steve hung a silhouette of Charles Dickens, and below the silhouette he spelled out the name in Old English lettering: dickens. Such a blatant display of Anglophilia didn't sit well with every Kevin Flynn and Michael Gallagher in Manhasset. They let it slide only because they so thoroughly approved of Steve's Cardinal Rule of the Barroom: Every third drink free. Also, it helped that Steve hired seven or eight members of the O'Malley clan to bus his tables, and that he took pains to make Dickens look as though it had been shipped brick by brick from County Donegal. 

Steve intended his bar to look like a European public house, but to feel quintessentially American, an honest-to-god house for the public. His public. In the heart of Manhasset, a pastoral suburb of eight thousand people, seventeen miles southeast of Manhattan, Steve wanted to create a sanctuary where his neighbors and friends and fellow drinkers, and especially his high-school buddies coming home from Vietnam, could savor a feeling of safety and return. In every venture Steve was confident of success - confidence was his most attractive quality and his tragic flaw - but with Dickens he surpassed his greatest expectations. Manhasset quickly came to see Steve's bar as the bar. Just as we said The City to mean New York City, and The Street to mean Wall Street, we always said The Bar, presumptively, and there was never any confusion about which bar we meant. Then, imperceptibly, Dickens became something more than The Bar. It became The Place, the preferred shelter from all life's storms. In 1979, when the nuclear reactor at Three Mile Island melted down and fear of apocalypse swept the Northeast, many Manhassetites phoned Steve to reserve space in the airtight basement below his bar. Of course everyone had their own basements. But there was just something about Dickens. People thought of it first whenever doomsday loomed. 

Along with sanctuary, Steve provided nightly lessons in democracy, or the special plurality of alcohol. Standing in the middle of his barroom, you could watch men and women from all strata of society educating and abusing one another. You could hear the poorest man in town discussing "market volatility" with the president of the New York Stock Exchange, or the local librarian lecturing a New York Yankees Hall of Famer about the wisdom of choking up on the bat. You could hear a feebleminded porter say something so off-the-wall, and yet so wise, that a college philosophy professor would jot it on a napkin and tuck it in his pocket. You could hear bartenders - in between making bets and mixing Pink Squirrels--talk like philosopher kings. 

Steve believed the corner bar to be the most egalitarian of all American gathering places, and he knew that Americans have always venerated their bars, saloons, taverns, and "gin mills," one of his favorite expressions. He knew that Americans invest their bars with meaning and turn to them for everything from glamour to succor, and above all for relief from that scourge of modern life--loneliness. He didn't know that the Puritans, upon landing in the New World, built a bar even before they built a church. He didn't know that American bars descend directly from the medieval inns of Chaucer's Canterbury Tales, which descended from the Saxon alehouses, which descended from the tabernae along the roads of ancient Rome. Steve's bar could trace its lineage all the way back to the painted caves of Western Europe where Stone Age elders initiated young boys and girls into the ways of the tribe nearly fifteen thousand years ago. Though Steve didn't know these things, he sensed them in his blood and enacted them in everything he did. More than most men, Steve appreciated the importance of place, and on the cornerstone of this principle he was able to build a bar so strange and shrewd and beloved and wondrously in tune with its customers, that it came to be known well beyond Manhasset. 

My hometown was famous for two things - lacrosse and liquor. Year in, year out, Manhasset produced a disproportionate number of superb lacrosse players and a still-greater number of distended livers. Some people also knew Manhasset as the backdrop for The Great Gatsby. While composing portions of his masterpiece, F. Scott Fitzgerald sat on a breezy veranda in Great Neck and gazed across Manhasset Bay at our town, which he turned into the fictional East Egg, a historic distinction that gave our bowling alley and pizzeria a certain archaeological grandeur. We strode each day across Fitzgerald's abandoned stage set. We romanced one another among his ruins. It was a kick - an honor. But like Steve's bar it was merely an offshoot of Manhasset's famous fondness for drink. Anyone familiar with Manhasset understood why liquor surged through Fitzgerald's novel like the Mississippi across a floodplain. Men and women throwing raucous parties and boozing until they blacked out or ran someone down with their car? Sounded to us like a typical Tuesday night in Manhasset. 

Manhasset, site of the largest liquor store in New York State, was the only town on Long Island with a cocktail named after it (a Manhasset is a Manhattan, with more alcohol). The town's half-mile-long main drag, Plandome Road, was every drinker's street of dreams - bar after bar after bar. Many in Manhasset likened Plandome Road to a mythical country lane in Ireland, a gently winding procession of men and women brimming with whiskey and good cheer. Bars on Plandome Road were as numerous as stars on Hollywood's Walk of Fame, and we took a stubborn, eccentric pride in their number. When one man torched his bar on Plandome Road to collect the insurance, cops found him in another bar on Plandome Road and told him he was wanted for questioning. The man put a hand over his heart like a priest accused of burning a cross. "How could I," he asked, "how could anyone - burn down a bar?" 

With its curious division of upper class and working class, its ethnic mix of Irish and Italian, and its coterie of some of the wealthiest families in the United States, Manhasset was forever struggling to define itself. It was a town where dirty-faced urchins gathered at Memorial Field - to play "bicycle polo;" where neighbors hid from one another behind their perfect hedgerows - yet still kept careful track of one another's stories and foibles; where everyone departed at sunrise on the trains to Manhattan - but no one ever really left for good, except in a pine box. Though Manhasset felt like a small farm community, and though real estate brokers tended to call it a bedroom community, we cleaved to the notion that we were a barroom community. Bars gave us identity and points of intersection. The Little League, softball league, bowling league, and Junior League not only held their meetings at Steve's bar, they often met on the same night. 

Brass Pony, Gay Dome, Lamplight, Kilmeade's, Joan and Ed's, Popping Cork, 1680 House, Jaunting Car, The Scratch - the names of Manhasset's bars were more familiar to us than the names of its main streets and founding families. The life spans of bars were like dynasties: We measured time by them, and found some primal comfort in the knowledge that whenever one closed, the curtain would rise on another. My grandmother told me that Manhasset was one of those places where an old wives' tale was accepted as fact - namely, that drinking at home was the mark of an alcoholic. So long as you drank publicly, not secretly, you weren't a drunk. Thus, bars. Lots and lots of bars. 

Of course many bars in Manhasset, like bars everywhere, were nasty places, full of pickled people marinating in regret. Steve wanted his bar to be different. He wanted his bar to be sublime. He envisioned a bar that would cater to Manhasset's multiple personalities. A cozy pub one minute, a crazy after-hours club the next. A family restaurant early in the evening, and late at night a low-down tavern, where men and women could tell lies and drink until they dropped. Essential to Steve was the idea that Dickens would be the opposite of the outside world. Cool in the dog days, warm from the first frost until spring. His bar would always be clean and well-lighted, like the den of that perfect family we all believe exists but doesn't and never did. At Dickens everyone would feel special, though no one would stand out. Maybe my favorite story about Steve's bar concerned the man who found his way there after escaping a nearby mental hospital. No one looked askance at the man. No one asked who he was, or why he was dressed in pajamas, or why he had such a feral gleam in his eye. The gang in the barroom simply threw their arms around him, told him funny stories, and bought him drinks all day long. The only reason the poor man was eventually asked to leave was that he suddenly and for no apparent reason dropped his pants. Even then the bartenders only chided him gently, using their standard admonition: "Here now - you can't be doing that!" 

Like love affairs, bars depend on a delicate mix of timing, chemistry, lighting, luck and--maybe above all--generosity. From the start Steve declared that no one at Dickens would feel slighted. His burgers would be three-inch soufflés of filet mignon, his closing time would be negotiable, no matter what the law said, and his bartenders would give an extra--extra--long pour. A standard drink at Dickens would be a double anywhere else. A double would leave you cross-eyed. A triple would "cream your spinach," according to my mother's younger brother, my Uncle Charlie, the first bartender Steve ever hired.

</file>

<file= AmE06_G50>

I could interpret the strange fact that the title of my sixth-grade science project was "The Control of Chronic Pain," and that I later developed years of constant pain (felt primarily as a dagger of criminal nerves behind the left eye), in one of two ways: 

1. It's just a coincidence. No connection. There is no real system of meaning in the universe. After all, I'm hardly unique. More than a quarter of all Americans experience some form of chronic pain each year, and about 20 percent of women have migraines or some type of persistent headache, a term I have used as shorthand to name my particular mystery affliction. For God's sake, the headache is the most common medical condition plaguing human beings! And there you have it. 

OR 

2. You see, the New Agers, much of the alternative medicine and self-help industry, and all those psychoanalysts are right. All pain has some meaning. Everything in life happens for a reason, so we can grow. There are no accidents. The sixth-grade science project was a clear sign from God or Spirit or the Higher Power of Your Understanding that all along I was meant to experience these headaches, learn from them, and then teach others to relieve their suffering. 

More specifically, as I interpret this second popular philosophy, we are each basically nothing more than ageless, continually reincarnating souls on an eternal mission for enlightenment, seeking to learn the vital and often painful lessons that our previous selves neglected. Just before we are born, our invisible spirits, just released from dead people, hover in the twilight-somewhere between the clouds and heaven-waiting for the next baby, which will represent their next and most effective learning opportunity. Then, at the proper moment, like synchronized swimmers lined up on a long series of diving boards by the pool's edge in a 1930s Busby Berkeley musical, they each seamlessly dive sideways and gracefully in cascading sequence into their individually designated earthly human containers. 

So, from this perspective, what evidently happened to me was that on the day I was born, April 9, 1967, my particular soul looked down and had the foresight, as souls often do, to choose my unassuming bourgeois South Suburban Chicago human life-form. It knew that, through a series of hapless errors in judgment and general misfortune, this bipedal hominid would offer the soul the perfect opportunity to fulfill its particular mission: having a really, really bad headache. 

In its infinite wisdom, the soul recognized that I would grow up with an anesthesiologist uncle who started one of the earlier chronic pain clinics in America, in Gary, Indiana--a land mass which is comparable in its cosmic power significance only to the sacred continental energy-vortex center underlying the Great Pyramid of Giza, or to that freaky thing in Sedona that attracts all those tourists. At the age of twelve, a traditional age of initiation into the world, my uncle would suggest as a topic for my sixth-grade science project "chronic pain," offering valuable foreshadowing. That science project would serve as my own personal burning bush, as a platform on which the Divine could manifest itself on earth and alert me to my purpose. 

The soul knew that despite the initially apparent dry nature of this topic of chronic pain, its mysteries would soon powerfully capture my imagination. After all, it posed so many more haunting and mesmerizing questions than the garden variety projects of my classmates, what with their pedestrian baking-soda volcanoes and hamster-perplexing mazes. 

I was drawn to the topic of pain the same way I was to the riveting made-for-TV John Travolta movie The Boy in the Plastic Bubble of that era, about the freakishness that results when the body goes awry. It had the same pull as the horrible, terrorizing historical accounts of Jewish girls my age hiding from the Nazis, such as in the Scholastic book Marta and the Nazis, which was most likely ordered from the back of a Weekly Reader, about a German girl stashing the family diamonds in the head of a doll she carried away in the train going over the border. And then there was the story of the more famous real-life Dutch girl hiding in an attic covered in movie posters, in a story still too dark for me to fully comprehend. Probably Catholic kids feel the same weird connection to tales of martyred saints riddled with arrows, sleeping on piles of bricks, wearing gloves filled with nettles, and/or willingly starving themselves to death. They just eat that stuff up. 

Indeed, the subject of chronic pain--full of mysteries and unimaginably endless suffering--would fascinate with its stories of people with phantom pain in limbs that had been cut off years before. Sometimes they would even feel the sensation of nails digging into palms that no longer existed. The topic would capture my imagination with the accounts of the rare children born without the ability to feel pain, which isn't as fortunate of a thing as you would at first suppose, as pain can actually give you useful warnings. Such children would almost always die early in life, after years of tearing up their bodies by doing something as simple as jumping off a swing too hard. Just as too little pain was bad, I learned, so was too much of it. I would think about what it must be like to go on with pain that was not "acute" (temporary), but "chronic" (from the Greek word chronos: "concerning time, constant, continuous"), meaning that despite having no apparent medical purpose at all, it wouldn't go away. 

My resulting science project--a report and a thick three-paneled poster board display, which I recently dug out of my parents' attic--reveals that I really got the drama of it all. On the middle board is the title, with the words "Chronic Pain" spelled out in twisting white wire garbage bag ties colored with a red marker. "Most of us well know what pain is and experience it quite often," reads the carefully printed explanation below, which was laid out on four strips of white construction paper pasted onto a red square, "but in the United States alone, for 40,000,000 people constant pain is a way of life. Here are some of the main ways people use to cope with their agony." I illustrated the intricacies of the nervous system with a diagram of nerves made of dried spaghetti noodles and a spinal cord of Styrofoam vertebrae, probably cut out of a disposable cooler, connected by a spine of blue drinking straws. 

On the surrounding white poster board I had illustrated different remedies. One was "drugs," signified by a bulbous jar labeled "opium" and surrounded by a smattering of road-safety signs-"do not enter," "caution," "yield"--cut out of my mother's driver's ed book. I knew this was the most basic tool, as scientists had found traces of morphine in mummies unearthed from thousands of years ago. I also displayed another ancient method, acupuncture, using a photocopied line drawing of a hefty goateed warrior standing resolutely, his body dotted with acupuncture points. On display below was a vial of real acupuncture needles. But I had more license to play with the biofeedback machine on the table, which literally provided audio and visual feedback to a patient about the effectiveness of certain tension-reducing techniques. Demonstrating the machine required the use of an electricity-conducting pad from my limited stash. I would peel away a tab to expose the pad's side of sticky gel, which gave off a bitter odor of alcohol and petroleum combined. Then I would affix the pad to my forehead, plug the biofeedback machine's arm into the pad, and then contort the forehead at will. The machine, which resembled a professional version of a transistor radio, with its tiny bulbs and dials and handsome black carrying case, beeped in proportion to the tension levels I was creating. 

But the pièce de résistance was an "interactive" board game, "The Control of Chronic Pain." The game's mission was serious, the players taking the perspective of someone trying to achieve pain relief; but the format was whimsical, ripped off from Candyland. The players, using a cardboard playing piece of a human figure, the kind that you see on public men's room doors, advanced along the steps of an upwardly curving path of blue footprints, with the ultimate destination point designated by the label "Pain Is Under Control." The players were escaping the villain, Pain, who was personified by three cardboard thieves who were pasted to the game board and who wore masks and stood in suspicious, hunched-over, lurking poses. A sign on the board explained the premise: "Wanted: PAIN. Charge: Hurting Millions of People. Reward: Relief." After rolling the dice, the players moved forward to spaces that gave further instructions, all soberly realistic, such as "Try to stop villain by surgically taking him out of nerve. It works. But there is numbness. Stay where you are." Another: "Advise a helpful drug to the victim. The victim gets addicted. Move back two spaces." The moral was illustrated by another sign on the board: "Pain Doesn't Pay!" 

And not to toot my own horn, but this display was also quite adept at illustrating basic neurological concepts in the treatment of pain. Fundamental was the gate theory, first formulated in 1965, which demonstrates how counterirritant pain blockers (Ben Gay, electrical stimulators, acupuncture needles) work, by blocking pain signals from the spinal cord. On the right lower panel of my poster board display, this process was illustrated by two parallel spaghetti noodles, representing the C nerve, the source of the pain, and then the friendlier A delta nerve. At the point where they reached the spinal cord, the A delta branched downward to overlap the C and impede its signals with a little "gate." In another diagram, I illustrated another relatively new scientific concept of that time: endorphins, "pain-fighting chemicals which are made in the pituitary gland in the brain." I explained that we try to activate these natural opiates in a variety of ways, such as placebos (fake pills that the patient thinks are the real thing) or acupuncture. 

The result: I got a B on it. 

Indeed, in the end, with so many possible interpretations, the really awful part of having a really bad headache that won't go away is the confusion of it all. What does it all mean? 

How we conceptualize and treat real physical pain is indeed rooted in our culture, and our culture today gives us more mixed and extreme messages than ever before. On the one hand, everything I know from growing up in an educated, doctor-worshiping Jewish home in the Midwest pulls me to the first answer, that basically "shit happens" in life, and that Western doctors are the answer. But then, the whirlwind of popular alternative medicine philosophies of the past several years-not to mention, my own natural internal quest for meaning-alert me to a second universe of other possibilities. 

But I do know for sure that I'm not alone in asking such difficult questions about the experience of chronic pain in the United States, in one form or another. In our culture, experiencing chronic pain or any long-term illness can be a complicated, isolating, self-blaming, guilt-ridden process. Millions of chronic pain sufferers in the United States like me have silently suffered their own individual and profoundly strange battles. In the process, we've questioned and overturned basic concepts of ourselves, of the medical system, of the world, and of illness and its metaphors. We need to share our journeys through this strange terrain for the benefit of those just beginning their struggles. More than a decade ago, when I embarked on my search for a cure for an American headache, I was painfully ignorant about the real, often hidden limits of many common treatments, from both Western and alternative medicine. I wish I had been armed with such essential, hard-won, critical information.

</file>

<file= AmE06_G51>

IN THE BEGINNING we were happy. And we were always excessive. So in the beginning we were happy to excess. 

WE WERE MOM and Dad and I - three palindromes! - and we lived eight hundred feet in the air above San Francisco; an apartment at the top of a building at the top of a hill: full of light, full of voices, full of windows full of water and bridges and hills. 

Mom was the center. Mom was irresistible. Whatever she was saying or wearing or smelling of was captivating - all our senses were attuned to her. As soon as I was old enough to walk I tried on her shoes and evening gowns and perfume, admired and wanted to be like her, so much that they had me seeing a shrink by the time I was three. The shrink said I needed to spend more time with my dad. But how? Mom was irresistible. 
Mom had published two books - one about throwing parties, one about battling malevolent ghosts - and was working on a third, about her childhood in Texas and Oklahoma. 

As far as I could tell Dad's job was to please Mom. He was solicitous and full of care. He gave Mom everything she wanted. He helped her want things she did not know to want. 

Early every morning, Mom, Dad, and I took walks around Russian Hill in matching blue jumpsuits with white piping, Royal Tenenbaums - style. 

ONE SUNDAY, on a shrink-mandated father-and-son outing, Dad took me across the bay on the ferry, re-creating the commute he made as a boy, before the Golden Gate Bridge was completed, from Catholic school in San Francisco to his home in Marin. Halfway there it started to rain, and we didn't have any umbrellas, so when we arrived we stood in a doorway near the water. 

Dad hadn't shaved since Friday morning before work, and he looked rough. Even I could see it. Our matching jumpsuits were sad without Mom. Dad lit a cigarette. We looked out at the water. 

A man with a box and an umbrella strode past, glanced at us, stopped fifty feet on, turned, walked back, and handed the box to Dad. 

"I can't give you anything else," he said. "But take this." 

Dad said, "Thank you," and took the box. 

The man looked at me, looked at the ground, walked away. 

Dad smoked till the man was out of sight, then he threw his cigarette in the gutter and opened the box. 

"He gave us donuts!" I shouted. 

Dad looked at me and started chuckling. "That guy thinks we don't have any money." He took a donut, laughed again, and blew powdered sugar out of his mouth. 

I ate a glazed, and then a chocolate with sprinkles. Dad ate all the rest, steadily, devouring them with great relish and no preference for jelly over oldfashioned over chocolate or bear claw - only pleasure, and great amusement. 

AT HOME I was either left alone, or overwhelmed with attention. Mom and Dad were either oblivious or hyperaware. They disappeared on a trip for seventeen days and left me with the maid. On Mom's return I ignored her when she called my name. She had my ears examined. They were infected. I needed surgery; tubes installed to drain them. I was four. Mom set herself the task of increasing my medical vocabulary, to make the hospital less frightening. (When an orderly rolled me into the operating room I asked him, "Are you the anesthesiologist?") I received books to read during my recovery, and became the kind of kid who spends all his time alone, reading, till Mom noticed my left eye didn't turn all the way to the left; then it was back to the doctor. 

I HAD a friend down the hill, in the long shadow of our building, whose mother cooked us meatloaf. When I discovered meatloaf, and that other mothers regularly cooked it for their children, I went home and said, "Other mothers cook. 

Why don't you cook?" 

Without hesitation Mom said, "Other mothers don't write books." 

It was the end of that question for me. And thenceforth, as if to compensate for not cooking the food we were eating, she began reading from her books at the dinner table. 

Mom was a captivating reader. She'd won the all-state elocution award in Oklahoma, in the forties, and when she told a story, especially a story about her childhood, Mom made me love words. 

BUT MOM had lots of other people to captivate. The apartment was headquarters for a salon-cum-luncheon - called the Roundtable - where Mom hosted conversation. The guests were notorious strangers. They always came, if for no other reason than to see the view. They were: union leaders; unionized prostitutes; Alex Haley; Native American secessionists; Agnes Moorehead; radical lesbians; Nobel laureates; Joan Baez; Black Panthers; Dear Abby; an astronaut; Eldridge Cleaver; Jessica Mitford; Gloria Steinem; a Catholic priest; a woman who had murdered her husband; Shirley Temple; a lesbian priest; Betty Friedan; welfare mothers; Werner Erhard; a Soviet ballerina; Daniel Ellsberg. And so on. 

Jessica Mitford was an old British woman with huge round glasses who proclaimed, "When I die I've given instructions that I want to be buried like this," and then pulled one corner of her mouth up and dragged the other one down, and eyed the other guests (the mayor, a plastic surgeon, Agnes Moorehead, Shirley Temple). "I want to make sure you all check on it. That's the way I want to look." Eldridge Cleaver brought Dad velvet flower-embroidered shorts that had a codpiece hanging down the front. Once I came home from school and no one was in the kitchen. The cook and the housekeeper - in French maid's uniforms -  had joined the table for lunch with Betty Friedan and Gloria Steinem. (Said Mom, "They were the perfect people to talk with domestic workers about the difficulty of working in someone else 's home.") 

Mom presided over the Roundtable with a silver bell that she rang to get everyone's attention. After ringing the bell Mom directed the conversation by asking questions. And as I went about my only-child activities - searching out a wire stripper to connect a camera battery to a nail and make a laser gun; constructing an orange juice dispenser out of Dad's discarded WaterPik dental hygiene machine (so I could have breakfast in my room); synthesizing an alcohol-free imitation wine; using bendable drink straws to siphon and circulate cold water throughout my bathroom during a heat wave - words found their way into my newly drained ears: 

MOM: You were once behind walls, weren't you? In a concentration camp? 

WOMAN'S VOICE: I was a refugee. My country is Yugoslavia, and we are the troublemakers of the world, you know. 

DAD: Just you? 

WOMAN'S VOICE: In 1941, when the Germans took over, these invaders, the Germans and Croats, caught a million Serbs and killed them overnight and sent them down to the river. It's not something to talk about at lunchtime. 

MOM: We talk about everything at lunchtime here! 

The battery heated the nail until it turned bright orange! 

MOM: How do you feel you have changed? 

MAN'S VOICE: I was a Marxist. I had rejected spiritual values. But then . . . I saw the design in nature and I was convinced there was a Creator. . . . It was a bad time for me. I wanted to go home to the United States. Friends of mine got into power and I thought they would help me but they didn't. The whole bottom of my world fell out. I went into a deep depression. I felt trapped. I had a wife and two children and my children didn't even speak English. They were going to French schools and becoming little Frenchie fried people. One night on my balcony I just caved in. This is down near Cannes on the Mediterranean coast. A lot of people ask me, like, were you drunk, had you been smoking? I was not high on anything. I was looking at the moon, a full moon, and I saw these shadows on it. I saw myself, my own profile on the moon. I had been thinking of killing myself. I had the pistol. And I wondered if what I was seeing was a sign that death was near. And then my image fell away and on the moon I saw a procession of my heroes: Fidel Castro, Mao Tse-tung, Karl Marx, Friedrich Engels. And then the image of Jesus Christ. That was an unwelcome image because I didn't have anything to do with him. It was like the last straw. I started crying. Just gushing out, real violent. I was trembling and I had the sense that my soul was trembling. I was down on my knees hanging onto the rail. And then I ran inside for a Bible. And it was there, this book I never read. I found the Twenty-Third Psalm, which I had learned as a child. But I didn't know where to find the Lord's Prayer. That's what happened. O.K.? 

The WaterPik fired orange juice across the room! 

MOM: Has winning the Nobel Prize been helpful in your work? 

WOMAN'S VOICE: Oh, yes! 

I put the synthetic wine in a wine bottle. Dad drank it with dinner and couldn't tell the difference! 

WOMAN'S VOICE: What propels you to get rich? 

DAD (in a voice that suggested maybe he was putting everyone on, or maybe he was completely serious): Greed. 

My bathroom got cooler and I ran downstairs shouting, "Mom, Dad - finally one of my inventions works!" 

MOM LOVED her luncheons. Mom loved emotions. "All these strangers, they sobbed like babies," she told me recently. "And they became my dear, dear friends." The apartment was an accelerator for emotions, a controlled environment where they could be witnessed without effect. Neutralized and admired. We were eight hundred feet above it all. Little did I - who had known only happiness or loneliness - know the variety emotion could provide. That pain moved in mysterious ways. That it could fly, swim, tunnel; was amphibious, ambidextrous, aerodynamic; a breeze and a smothering blanket and a storm. That emotions would knock our tower down to the ground, and none of these strangers would help us. 

WHEN I WAS five Mom and Dad rented a house in the Napa Valley, and Dad befriended a man called Frenchie Meyers who wore suspenders and owned a junkyard nearby - fifty acres covered in thirty-foot heaps of smashed cars, flattired trailers full of old glass doorknobs, two aircraft hangars (one stuffed full of forklifts, tractors, and power tools and guarded by Sam, a glass-blue-eyed wolf dog, the other converted into a machine shop and guarded by an anvil of a bulldog named Jezebel). Dad let me play in an old school bus parked beneath an ancient willow tree. How old? Centuries old, Dad informed me. I played for hours beneath that green canopy, in that yellow bus, while Dad talked to Frenchie. 

Dad made Frenchie an offer to buy it all, said Frenchie could keep on living in his little house on the edge of the junk, rent-free, forever. Frenchie accepted. Dad built a hill - flood protection - and Mom's dream house on the hill. Mom landscaped the junk into trees and lawns and an hourglass-shaped carp pond. The school bus got towed. I built a tree house in the willow. I tried to construct a car out of Frenchie's leftover junk. On the weekends Dad wore a JC Penney work shirt and led a crew of men planting grass, grapes, and flowers, and shoring up the eroding banks of the Napa River, which ran along the property's edge. Perfect happiness started flowing. Mom brought Dad cooling beverages while he worked. We had picnics. I made friends with a Mexican kid down the road, and we hammered nails into the tree house. At night Dad showed us World War I movies on an old projector. Mom's best friend, Dede Traina (pronounced Tryeen- nah), had a place nearby, and she was over all the time.

</file>

<file= AmE06_G52>

On a cold November morning in Vienna, I walked a maze of narrow streets on the way to see a man who promised to solve the mystery of Kurban Said. I was with Peter Mayer, the president of the Overlook Press, a large, rumpled figure in a black corduroy suit who wanted to publish Said's small romantic novel Ali and Nino.  Mayer tended to burst into enthusiastic monologues about the book: "You know how when you look at a Vermeer, and it's an interior, and it's quite quiet, yet somehow, what he does with perspective, with light, it feels much bigger - that's this novel!" A love story set in the Caucasus on the eve of the Russian Revolution, Ali and Nino had been originally published in German in 1937 and was revived in translation in the seventies as a minor classic. But the question of the author's identity had never been resolved. All anyone agreed on was that Kurban Said was the pen name of a writer who had probably come from Baku, an oil city in the Caucasus, and that he was either a nationalist poet who was killed in the Gulags, or the dilettante son of an oil millionaire, or a Viennese café-society writer who died in Italy after stabbing himself in the foot. In the jacket photograph of a book called Twelve Secrets of the Caucasus, the mysterious author is dressed up as a mountain warrior - wearing a fur cap, a long, flowing coat with a sewn-in bandolier, and a straight dagger at his waist. 

Mayer and I were on our way to a meeting with a lawyer named Heinz Barazon, who was challenging Overlook over proper author credit on the novel. Barazon claimed to know the true identity of Kurban Said, and as the lawyer for the author's heirs, he was insisting that it be acknowledged in the new edition of Ali and Nino or he would block publication. At the lawyer's address, next to a shop where some old women were bent over tables with needle and thread, we were buzzed into a lobby that could have had the grime of the Anschluss on its fixtures. Mayer squeezed my arm with excitement and said, "It's The Third Man!" Barazon's appearance didn't do anything to dispel the atmosphere of a Cold War thriller. He was a small man with a gravelly voice, a stooped back, and a clubfoot that made a tremendous racket as he led us down his book-lined hallway. "You have both come a long way to discover the identity of Kurban Said," he said. "It will all soon become clear to you." He ushered us into a room where a gaunt and beautiful blond woman with enormous glassy eyes was lying motionless on a couch. "Pardon me, this is Leela," said Barazon. 

"I hope you'll forgive me," Leela said in a fragile, precise voice. "I must remain lying down because I'm ill. I can't sit for long." 

Barazon came directly to the point: the novel Ali and Nino was written by the Baroness Elfriede Ehrenfels von Bodmershof, the second wife of Leela's father, Baron Omar-Rolf von Ehrenfels, and when Baroness Elfriede died, in the early 1980s, having outlived her husband, all rights to the work had passed down to Leela.

Barazon produced a thick file of documents that backed up this story: publishing contracts, legal papers, and author lists from the late thirties, stamped with Nazi eagles and swastikas. Under the entry for "Said, Kurban" in the author's section of the 1935 - 39 Deutscher Gesamtkatalog - the Third Reich's equivalent of Books in Print - it said, in no uncertain terms, "pseudonym for Ehrenfels, v. Bodmershof, Elfriede, Baroness." 

The Nazi documents seemed to tell a clear story - that Baroness Elfriede had been Kurban Said - but it was one that I believed to be untrue. 
I had become interested in the identity of Kurban Said in the spring of 1998, when I went to Baku to write about the city's new oil boom -  virtually the first signs of life since the Russian Revolution made time stop there in 1917. Baku is the capital of Azerbaijan, a tiny country that prides itself on being the easternmost point in Europe, though most Europeans wouldn't know it. Its proximity to Iran and the fact that the majority of its citizens are Shiite Muslims can dominate your vision of Azerbaijan until you realize that the most impressive public building in Baku is not a mosque but a copy of the grand casino at Monte Carlo. Baku is the sort of city that has been beyond rigid ideologies and religions for a thousand years. Its name is said to derive from a Persian expression, baadiyekubiden, or "blow of the winds." Being situated at the head of a desert peninsula jutting into the sea, the city is in fact one of the windiest places on earth - one dapper ninety-seven-year-old man told me how, as a young man, he and his family had worn specially made goggles with their evening clothes to stroll along the boulevards without being blinded by the sands.

Just before I left for Baku, an Iranian friend had recommended Kurban Said's novel Ali and Nino as a kind of introduction to the city and the Caucasus in general, saying that it would be more useful than any tourist guide. I had never heard of it, and when I tracked down a 1972 Pocket Books edition, I was a little surprised by the cover. It featured two airbrushed lovers and an endorsement from Life: "If Kurban Said can't push Erich Segal off the bestseller list, nobody can!" But there turned out to be something of the eighteenth century about the book, as if Candide had been written with realistic characters and the intention of sweeping readers off their feet. Each scene continued only long enough to spring some miniature gear that moved the mechanism forward. The reviewer in The New York Times had written, "One feels as if one has dug up buried treasure."  

The novel revolves around the love between a Muslim boy and a Christian girl and the progress of their relationship as they grow up; in the culturally tolerant world of old Azerbaijan, their courtship seems blessed, though they are constantly bickering: " 'Ali Khan, you are stupid. Thank God we are in Europe. If we were in Asia they would have made me wear the veil ages ago, and you couldn't see me.' I gave in. Baku's undecided geographical situation allowed me to go on looking into the most beautiful eyes in the world."

Over the course of its history, Azerbaijan had been conquered by Alexander the Great, the Mongols, the Ottomans, and the Persians. Finally, its "undecided geographical situation" was resolved when the Russians captured it in 1825. During the period of czarist expansion in the Caucasus, so vividly recounted by Lermontov, Tolstoy, and Pushkin, Europe discovered Baku and Baku discovered Europe. And everyone discovered oil. Lots of it. In Baku you did not need to drill for the stuff - it sat on the surface of the earth, in black ponds, sometimes enormous lakes - and the flow could be so strong that crude occasionally swallowed whole houses along the Caspian shore. The walled caravan outpost soon became the center of the burgeoning global oil industry - supplying more than half the world's crude - and the result was a fabulous nineteenth-century city built on the profits: extravagant mansions, mosques, casinos, and theaters from the period when the city was home to the Rothschilds, the Nobels, and dozens of local Muslim "oil barons," as they were called. There was Mir Babayev, a popular singer who, after discovering oil on his land, spent the rest of his days searching out his record albums and destroying them because he preferred to be remembered as an oil magnate. And there was Haji Zeynalabdin Taghiyev, who made his fortune when an earthquake struck his land, flooding it with oil; he built the first school for girls in the Muslim world. Building wars sprang up. Moorish palaces still sit next to Gothic manses, and Byzantine cupolas next to bejeweled rococo pavilions. The locals styled themselves cultured Europeans and "modern Muslims," right up to the point when the Bolsheviks decided they were decadent bourgeois and swooped in to crush them.

But Baku oil fueled Stalin's Five Year Plans, and during the Second World War, Hitler wanted Baku's oil so badly that he redirected the entire Russian campaign to get it. In September 1942, his general staff presented him with a giant cake in the shape of the Caucasus. A newsreel of the occasion shows the führer cutting himself the piece with baku spelled out in frosting. "Unless we get the Baku oil, the war is lost," Hitler shouted at a top commander, and he sacrificed the entire German Sixth Army at Stalingrad rather than redirect a single division out of the Caucasus to come to its aid. If they had succeeded in grabbing Baku, the combined Nazi armies would have controlled one of the greatest strategic energy reserves in the world - not to mention one of the most strategic pieces of territory, the land bridge between Europe and Asia - and, with the Soviet Union deprived of its oil, the Nazis would have for all purposes won the war. Instead of victory, the push for Baku brought utter defeat on the Russian front, and less than three years later, Soviet armored divisions, tanked up with Baku oil, were at the gates of Berlin. 

After 1945, rather than being rewarded for having fueled the Russian victory, Azerbaijan saw many of its citizens deported to Siberia and its oil industry allowed to languish. The fin de siècle oil-boom city was deliberately ignored, forgotten, taking on a deserted, vaguely eerie quality, so that even today it is possible to imagine that one has wandered into some unusually sooty Right Bank neighborhood in Paris, mysteriously abandoned by its inhabitants.

My guide to Baku was Fuad Akhundov, a muscular young fellow who worked as an agent of Interpol, the international police agency, but seemed to spend most of his time sleuthing his city's hidden past. Growing up in the Soviet era, Fuad had always wondered about the lost culture that had built the decaying mansions all around him, so he began investigating the city's history, mansion to mansion, house to house. Fuad seemed to know the decaying mansions of Baku like members of his own family. "I entered these edifices, asking if anyone knew the descendants of the owner," he told me as we drove around the city in his battered Russian car. "As a policeman, I knew that often people who think they know nothing can provide vital information, so I used the crafts of interrogation, getting people to recall things their dead grandparents or parents mentioned to them over the course of the years." Fuad spoke fluent English that made him sound a bit like a nineteenth-century novel. When he needed to go somewhere, he would say things like "Now your humble servant must beg to take his leave, as he must attend to some pressing police matters."

As we explored Baku's medieval ramparts, nineteenth-century mansions, Zoroastrian temples, and palace gardens straight out of The Arabian Nights, Fuad rarely stopped talking. "From here I could see my world, the massive wall of the town's fortress and the ruins of the palace, Arab inscriptions at the gate," he rhapsodized. "Through the labyrinth of streets camels were walking, their ankles so delicate that I wanted to caress them. In front of me rose the squat Maiden's Tower, surrounded by legends and tourist guides. And behind the tower the sea began, the utterly faceless, leaden, unfathomable Caspian Sea, and beyond, the desert - jagged rocks and scrub: still, mute, unconquerable, the most beautiful landscape in the world." 

It took me a while to realize that he was quoting, and that the passage was from Ali and Nino.

</file>

<file= AmE06_G53>

When my mother suddenly became ill with a heart problem, I was drafted as a temporary replacement for her in my father's rural medical practice near the Smoky Mountains in East Tennessee. I didn't relish the idea of taking any leave from my glamorous job as a U.S. Senate lawyer, but it was an emergency and I was assured it would only be for a couple of days. 

How could I say no? So I rushed home from Washington to fill in as his receptionist. 

When I unlocked the front door of my father's office at 7:30 the first morning, the phone was already ringing. I hurried inside and stretched across the reception desk to answer it. 

"Dr. Jourdan's office," I said, out of breath.

"Do y'all wash out feet?" a woman shouted in a raucous voice.

I considered her question. Although I spoke the local dialect fluently, I had no idea what she meant. I said, "Excuse me?" and quickly moved the earpiece a safe distance away from my head before she had time to respond.

"Wash out feet! Do y'all wash out feet?" she screamed. 

"I . . . I don't know." I sent up a silent prayer that we did not.

"Well she needs her foot washed out! How much do y'all charge for that?"

If I was unsure if we even did such a thing, how could I know how much it would cost? "I don't know," I said.

In the ensuing silence I managed to add, "I'd ask the doctor, but he's not here yet. I'll find out when he comes in and call you back and tell you what he says. Okay?" 

I fumbled through the piles of paper on Momma's desk until I located a pencil and a blank scrap of notepaper, jotted down the woman's name and number, and then hung up. I stared at the phone warily. Working as a temp for Daddy might be a little harder than I'd anticipated. 

I hurried around to the other side of the reception desk in an attempt to put a bit of formica between myself and the medical world. But before I'd even gotten seated atop the wooden stool that was the main feature of my new domain, I heard the front door open and then the unmistakable sound of elderly ladies, their voices worn out from too many years of use. One squeaked like a rusty hinge and the other crackled in an unpredictable jumble of soft and then suddenly loud sounds, like a radio with bad reception. The ladies were advising and encouraging each other in an effort to negotiate a small step at the front door. I turned and saw that it was the Hankins sisters, Herma and Helma, and their friend who lived with them, Miss Viola Burkhart. 

I'd known them all my life. They were in their nineties. The Hankins sisters had never been married. Miss Viola was a widow who had come to live with them after her husband died. She was ninety-eight, weighed about seventy pounds, and had an advanced case of what the sisters called "old-timers." Somewhere along the way she'd lost the ability or inclination to speak and now she wore a perpetual vacant smile. 

Helma was ninety-five and also weighed less than a hundred pounds. She was extremely stooped, bent almost double from osteoporosis, and her eyesight wasn't good. Herma was the baby at ninety-one and probably weighed more than both the other ladies combined. She was still sturdy but deaf as a post. So there was one who could hear and see, but not think or talk; one who could think, hear, and talk, but not see; and one who could think, see, and talk, but not hear. 

The ladies were inseparable. Helma did the cooking and talking on the phone and Herma did the heavy work and the driving. Both of them took care of Viola.

Helma wore a faded green polyester leisure suit with an oddly intriguing assortment of safety pins arrayed along the edge of one lapel, while Herma had on baggy sweatpants and a misshapen sweater. Miss Viola was wearing a demure flowered dress. All three ladies wore shiny brown naugahyde coats that had been fashionable in the sixties.

When they moved, they shuffled along together, holding onto each other for support and navigational assistance. They made their way carefully to the reception desk and Helma said that it was Miss Viola who needed to see the doctor today. Herma said, "Hey there, girl," and smiled. "We was sorry to hear about your ma. How's she doing?"

"Pretty good. She'll be back Monday."

Herma looked at me in confusion and said, "I thought she had a heart attack."

"She did."

"Ain't she in the hospital?"

"Yeah, but she told me she'd be out by Monday."

I was relieved when Herma decided to leave it at that. The story sounded a little thin, even to me, but I desperately needed to believe it.

Then, without even a hint of foreboding, I made my first executive decision in the health care arena. "You ladies can come right on back to the examining room," I said. I figured it would be easier to get all of them up and down just once instead of twice; and waiting in the back would protect them from exposure to whatever germs the other patients might bring in. It seemed like a good idea at the time.

As I helped them through the door that divided the waiting room from the rest of the office I said to Helma, "You ladies are lucky to have each other." 

She smiled. "Oh yeah, we got enough spare parts between the three of us to make one whole person!"

I took them back to Room 3 because it was the only room with enough places for all of them to sit down. Room 3 was used for surgery and contained Daddy's pride and joy  -  the hydraulic surgical table. 

Thirty-five years ago, when he couldn't really afford it, Daddy had bought the special motorized table that would raise and lower, so he could lift patients to a comfortable height while doing surgery. Even now the table still occupied a special place in his heart, like his Leitz microscope. No one was allowed to touch either piece of equipment but him. 

The table was controlled by four pedals that lay flat on the floor. The entire table could be either raised or lowered; or it could be tilted by raising or lowering either the head or foot.

I seated Miss Viola in the middle of the table and told the ladies that the doctor would be in in a few minutes. Then I returned to my post at the reception desk. While I waited, I retrieved my phone messages from voice mail in Washington. My boss, Senator Hayworth, was conducting a series of hearings on corruption in the nuclear power industry, and I expected most of the calls would be related to that.

There were eleven messages. I sorted them with respect to time zone and then numbered them to indicate the order in which they should be returned. First came the calls to people on Eastern time: government affairs representatives for the University of Tennessee and Tennessee Valley Authority. The call to a huge nuclear power conglomerate in Chicago could be made after 10:00, to a colleague in Sedona an hour after that, and then after noon I could reach the Los Angeles offices of the lobbyists for the electric power industry. Tokyo Power Company would come last, after 8:00 tonight. No problem.

As I dialed the Director of Federal Relations for the University of Tennessee, Daddy came in carrying a cardboard tray with a styrofoam cup of coffee and a McDonald's bag. He set his breakfast on the counter and I told him about the ladies waiting in Room 3. He nodded, fished his sausage biscuit out of the bag, and began to unwrap it.

Then he looked at me with his head tilted. "What's that sound," he said.

"I don't hear anything," I said, trying to stay focused on the opening pleasantries of my business conversation.

He laid his biscuit down next to his cup of coffee and walked down the hall toward the back. I heard him pause at the doorway of Room 3 and say, "Good morn . . ." Then he shouted, "What the hell's going on in here?"

"Gotta go," I said, hanging up on the Director while she was talking. Then I bolted for the back. 

Things were not the way I'd left them. The surgical table's motor, normally a low-pitched, almost inaudible hum, had changed to an angry whine. The head of the table was tilted as high as it would go, over five feet in the air, and the foot was down, almost touching the floor. Miss Viola had slid into a little wad at the lower end. Herma and Helma were frantically struggling to keep her from falling onto the floor, but she was oblivious. She smiled serenely as Herma tugged on her arms and Helma hoisted her ankles.

I couldn't understand why this was happening. It sounded like someone was standing on a cat's tail. I looked down reflexively and noticed that Herma had somehow come to be standing on the floor pedal that raised the head end of the table. She clearly didn't realize what she was doing, nor could she hear the table motor running.

Daddy shouted a one-word accusation, "Carolyn!" and leapt forward to snatch up Miss Viola. As she slipped off the end of the table, her dress peeled up over her head. He tried to set her on her feet, but she was so dizzy she couldn't stand by herself. He told Herma to get her foot off the control pedal, but she couldn't hear well enough to understand what he was saying. 

He made a series of shuffling hops sideways, crushing Viola tightly against his side, and startled Herma by lifting her bodily off the pedal with his other arm. He held one lady under each arm while he stomped on the "Head Down" control. 

All of this confusion and man-handling sent the sisters into a tizzy. And Daddy was incensed that anyone would dare touch the controls of his table, much less put such a terrible strain on it.

"What'd you do that for?" Daddy shouted at Herma in a voice so thunderous that she finally heard him.

"Do what? I didn't do anything! Your table there is broken!" 

"It better not be!" he said.

When the table was level again, he plopped Miss Viola back down in the center and flipped her dress down over her legs. She seemed neither startled nor embarrassed. In fact, she seemed to have missed the whole ordeal.

Under the circumstances Daddy decided to go ahead and tend to Miss Viola's medical problems before normal office hours. He patiently listened to all three ladies' health concerns and wrote prescriptions all round.

As the ladies drove away, Daddy went back to his sausage biscuit. He stared at me while he chewed and then said, "Don't ever do that again."

"Don't do what?" I said. "Don't leave any old ladies alone with any of your stuff?"

"Just don't do it again," he snapped and took his biscuit into the back to eat it in peace.

We were both under a lot of stress.

A few minutes later, Alma, Daddy's nurse, confided that during her entire twelve years with the doctor she'd never heard him shout like that before. 

"Well, just stick with me," I said, "I've been with him for forty years and I've been hearing it the whole time." 

Daddy was fantastic at handling medical emergencies. He was unbelievably cool under pressure if, say, someone had cut off their arm or leg with a chainsaw. But he simply wasn't equipped to handle the kind of emergencies that seemed to crop up whenever I was around.

</file>

<file= AmE06_G54>

I'm sitting with my legs straight out on an examining table at the Georgia Warm Springs Polio Foundation, where I have just arrived. Four doctors lean over my legs, their elbows on the table, talking back and forth. The doctors are looking for traces.

Traces are little whispers of life in muscles destroyed by the polio virus. They promise the possibility of a new future. My part in this examination, not the first in my life with polio, is to concentrate with all my might on each muscle, one at a time, in the hope that with my undivided attention, there will be a shiver of response and the doctors will rise up, smiling, and announce that the audition has been a success and there is reason for hope.

Muscle to muscle, trace to trace, I am looking for a sign of possibility.

At Warm Springs, traces is the word for hope. When I think of the word "traces" now, it is as a footprint or a shadow or a verb, like "unearth" or "expose" or "reveal."

I've been looking for traces in my childhood that will bring the years I spent in Warm Springs into some kind of focus. In its intention, the process is very much the same as it was when I lived there and turned my attention to discovering what remained.
Warm Springs, 1952 
On the morning Joey Buckley got his wheelchair back, got to leave his bed and move about the hospital grounds alone, I had been up at dawn, before the Georgia sun turned the soft air yellow as butter. I lived in the eighth bed in a sixteen-bed ward of girls at the Warm Springs Polio Foundation and had been living there, off and mostly on, since I was eleven years old. That morning, at the beginning of April, I was wide awake with plans to slip out of the room without any of the fifteen other girls knowing I was gone until they woke to the rancid smell of grits and eggs to see my empty bed carefully made.

I was wearing blue jeans, cut up the seam so they'd fit around my leg cast, a starchy white shirt with the collar up, a red bandanna tied around my neck like Dale Evans, my hair shoulder length, in a side part, the June Allyson bangs swept up in a floppy red grosgrain bow. A cowgirl without the hat and horse, a look I cultivated, boy enough to be in any company.

I wheeled past Avie Crider on the first bed, lying on her left side, her right leg hanging in traction above her hip, a kidney-shaped throw-up pan by her cheek. She'd come out of surgery the day before, screaming all night, but we were used to that in one another and could sleep through noises of pain and sadness, or talk through them, about movies and boyfriends and sex and God, back and forth across the beds. Never pain and sadness. 

I shut the door. The Girls' Ward (called Ward 8 by the staff), on the second floor of Second Medical, was at one end of a long hall, and the Boys' Ward was at the other end. The long corridor, with the nurses' station between the wards, was empty at dawn, too early for the smell of breakfast, for the morning nursing staff to click up and down the corridors with trays of thermometers and medicines, even for the bedpans, which were my responsibility. 

I wanted to go straight to the Boys' Ward, where Joey Buckley might be waiting for me, but it was too early for that also, too early for mail, which was my other job, or for orderlies to take the surgery patients down to the first-floor pre-op waiting room, or for the domestic staff to begin mopping the linoleum for a new day. Too early for anything but the Babies' Ward (officially called the Children's Ward), where I went every afternoon to take the babies in my lap for a wheelchair spin around the walkways, pretending they were mine for keeps, these orphan babies whose parents were off in their own houses in other towns, like my parents three hundred long miles away in Washington. These babies couldn't do without me. 

But this morning, days away from thirteen, a girl of high temperament and little patience, I was burning with anticipation. I wanted to go as fast as a girl could go, a winged runner with hair on fire, hanging over the side of an open cockpit, a high wind blowing my clothes off. 

I passed Miss Riley, the red-haired head nurse, her long, freckled legs stretched straight out from the chair where she was sleeping, her head thrown back against the wall, her mouth hanging open. My wheelchair was standard issue, made of wood with yellowed wicker on the seat and back, and it was squeaky so I pushed it softly by Miss Riley's office, down the corridor to the elevator, hoping not to get caught before I carried out my plan. 

When the elevator doors opened onto the first floor, Dr. Iler was rushing out of the Babies' Ward, and I waved, but he looked right at me without registering who I was or wondering, as he ought to have, what I was doing up and dressed at dawn. Running away? That's what he would have thought if he'd seen me through his own preoccupations. On bad days, running away was what we talked about doing, as if we had legs for running or anywhere to go, stuck in the Georgia countryside, prisoners of our own limitations. 

"Suzie Richards." Dr. Iler suddenly stopped and turned around, as if my presence had come to him in memory after he had seen me in person. "What are you doing up at the crack of dawn?" 

"I couldn't sleep," I said. 

"Well, be careful," he said, and I thought to say "Of what?" out here in the middle of mainly nowhere with doctors and nurses and priests and orderlies, no danger here except the invisible one of my own secret desires. But what did I know then about fear of what was inside myself? 

"I will be careful," I said, and he was gone. 

Outside the front door, the air was New England chilly, fresh with the beginning of spring, and I wheeled my chair through the big door, down the ramp onto the sidewalk, thinking of Joey Buckley's brown eyes, deep and dark as winter ponds. 

The buildings of the Warm Springs Polio Foundation had a kind of fading beauty. It had been a late-nineteenth-century spa, rebuilt, after Roosevelt purchased the old Meriwether Inn and grounds, with low white buildings in wings around a grassy courtyard with walkways, some covered like porticoes. I thought of myself as living in a hotel. I was grown-up and beautiful and walking without the aid of crutches or braces, walking in high heels, and I had come to this hotel on a holiday to find the man of my dreams. 

I wheeled over to the wing where the Boys' Ward was located, stopping just below it so Joey Buckley, if he happened to be looking out the window beside his bed, would see me there. 

Behind me, the door to the main building opened and shut, and I kept my back to whoever was coming out, hoping to pass unobserved, but the invader of my private romance was Father James, another recipient of my unguarded affection, and he had seen me. I could feel him headed in my direction. 

"Mary," he said, coming up behind me, out of breath. 

He called me Mary because I had told him my middle name was Mary and I was called by that name at home, although my middle name was really Lynn. But neither Susan nor Lynn seemed right for a Quaker girl converting to Catholicism, as I had been in the process of doing with Father James, wishing to fill the long empty hours with something commensurate with my desire and because I loved him and believed he would like me better with a name like Mary. 

Much of my free time at Warm Springs was spent figuring out the best way to be liked by the people I wanted to like me. Not everyone. Only the ones who judged me bad for reasons I could never understand, neither the reasons nor the meaning of bad. And the ones I adored, since I was at an age and had an inclination to love without reservation. 

"What are you doing up so early?" Father James gave my wheelchair a gentle push. 

"I couldn't sleep," I said. "What about you?" 

He hesitated, and I could tell even before he spoke that he was inventing some excuse for being in the hospital when he normally would be getting ready to serve at the 6 a.m. Mass, generally attended by the staff at Warm Springs either on their way to work or on their way home. 

"Did something happen to one of the babies?" I asked. "I saw Dr. Iler." 

"Dr. Iler was in the Babies' Ward," he said. 

"Were you there for a sick baby?" I asked. 

And I suddenly remembered our recent conversation in catechism class about last rites. I had been fascinated and repelled by the idea of a priest, a man in a stiff white collar and black robe but still a man, ridding the dying of leftover sins so that, fresh as a daisy, as my mother would say, the dead could pass into heaven. I loved the Roman Catholic Church, with the body and blood of Jesus popped into our mouths and incense burning and bells and chanting in Latin. But passing into heaven held no appeal at all. 

"Were you in the Babies' Ward doing last rites?" I asked, my mind running through the cribs of babies, Eliza Jane, little Maria, Tommy Boy, Rosie, Sue Sue, Violet Blue, Johnny Go-Go, all those babies of mine with the nicknames I had given them. 

"Don't go into the Babies' Ward today, Mary." 

"Can you tell me which baby?" I asked. 

He tousled my hair. 

"Not just now," he said, and I watched him walk away in his black cassock, his muddy shoes showing below the skirt, his long thinning hair flying above his head in threads. 

Halfway across the courtyard, he turned and, with his cassock blowing behind him, walked back toward me. 

"Mary," he said, kneeling so we were face to face. "I know you're thinking you'll go to the Babies 'Ward as soon as I'm out of sight, but you can't. This was not a patient you knew." 

Instinctively I didn't believe him. 
I watched until he was out of sight and then I crossed the courtyard on a diagonal toward the movie theater  -  not an actual movie theater but a large room where current Hollywood films were shown to the patients, mostly children, either sitting in wheelchairs or lying on stretchers in body casts, everyone in the hospital who could breathe without an iron lung, in rows of white sheets. 

The next afternoon, a Saturday, I would be going with Joey Buckley to see High Noon  -  that was the description of my Saturday I would tell my parents during our Sunday telephone call, always just after noon, a ritual of longing and dread. 

"I went to see High Noon with Joey Buckley," I'd say. "We do everything together lately." 

I knew it would please them to hear that I had a best and steady friend, a Joey Buckley whom they'd met but didn't know, filling the gap their absence had left. It would please them to think of me doing the things that normal children in the sixth grade did, like going to movies. 

It wasn't necessarily true about Joey Buckley.

</file>

<file= AmE06_G55>

Amy is born a fighter, six weeks early and a wispy five pounds. Her blood is incompatible with Mom's, so the doctors replace it, draining out the old while infusing the new. Her heart stops anyway. So they pump her tiny baby chest and blow air into her tiny baby lungs until she squalls, and then send her home to round out our family of seven. 

The year is 1965, and it is my parents' third go-round with babies and death. The first had come in 1960, when I woke my mother before dawn, crying for a bottle. At four months and four days old, I was a blue-eyed Gerber baby, the spitting image of my father. Across the room slept my exact replica, my twin sister, Janette. A few weeks earlier our picture had made the front page of the local paper when a smiling mayoral candidate held us up for the cameras. He later complained about the fuzz our blanket left on his black suit coat.

My mother put her hand on Janette's back to feel her breathing. Then she yelled for Dad, who came running. He blew air into her mouth and pressed on her chest, but it was too late. Janette was dead. An errant air bubble or an electrical glitch stopped her heart. Crib death. Cause unknown.

Mom gave birth to Pat barely a year later. Pat was a month early and on the light side at five and a quarter pounds, but within days the local paper announced that mother and daughter were at home and doing fine. Ten days later, though, Mom was in the kitchen warming up a bottle when blood started pouring down her legs. It soaked through her clothes and puddled on the floor. An ambulance came, siren wailing, and rushed her to the hospital. Doctors elevated the foot of her bed and covered her head with an oxygen tent. Through the muffling of the plastic tent she could hear my father and the doctors and nurses, but she couldn't respond. 

She heard, too, the eerie chant of the priest giving her last rites. "God, the father of mercies, through the death and resurrection of His Son has reconciled the world to himself and sent the Holy Spirit among us for the forgiveness of sins; through the ministry of the church may God give you pardon and peace."

Still she bled, until she was drained, until her heart had nothing left to pump, until it stopped.

"I absolve you from your sins, in the name of the Father, and the Son, and of the Holy Spirit. Through the holy mysteries of our redemption, may almighty God release you from all punishments in this life and in the life to come. May He open to you the gates of paradise and welcome you to everlasting joy."

Long moments passed as doctors scrambled to get it to pump again. Then they rushed her, bed and all, into the operating room. They scraped out the inside of her uterus and gave her half a dozen blood transfusions. When she finally came home, she had to stay in bed for three months, her children pestering for attention.
As an adult I ask my father why he kept getting her pregnant if it was so hard on Mom.
Do you and your husband have sex? he asks.

I hesitate, trying to decide what and whether to answer.

Of course, I say finally.

Then you know, he answers. Men...have...needs. 

By the time Amy is a toddler we live in Kalamazoo, in a two-story box of a house on a double lot, the yard framed by a pair of the huge maple trees that give the street its name. There is a screened-in front porch and a fire escape to one of the girls' bedrooms that scares us all, so we push our bunk beds against it to protect against the boogeyman.

Steve is the eldest and most responsible. He cemented his reputation in the family one Easter when he was about seven by saying, "If we don't get organized, we won't have any fun." I worship him, usually from afar, but sometimes on Saturdays my sisters and I leap onto him as he's stretched out on the floor watching sports, secure that he will be careful even then to throw us off onto cushions or soft rugs, avoiding as much as possible the hard edges of tables and bookcases. 

There is Jane, brown-eyed and cherubic, who in high school will cling to the balance beam with her toes, refusing to fall off. She succeeds by sheer force of will. It is Jane's hand-me-downs I wear and her bed I climb into during thunderstorms.

Then there is me. I take ballet lessons instead of piano, try out for plays instead of sports. I don't realize until later that I am the classic middle child, doing what I can to get attention. I am not as good as my older siblings and not as cute as the younger, so I strive mostly to be different.

Next is Patty, and then Amy, the baby, lanky and blue-eyed, the only one with mounds of curls, chasing after all of us, forever trying to keep up.
My father is proud of his family in a Catholic, fill-the-pew sort of way. His children sit in descending order, Steve in an ironed shirt and clip-on tie, the girls in poof-sleeved dresses, veils of lace bobby-pinned to our hair. My mother is proud, too. Straight-backed and beautiful, she holds Amy, always the baby. There we sit, our patent leathers swinging and sometimes kicking, as the priest walks down the aisle in his embroidered brocade, swinging his censer, the rich incense stinging our eyes.

Dad sells insurance for Metropolitan Life. Mom, a registered nurse, stays home with us kids, washing and folding, and carrying in bag after bag of groceries. For a while my Uncle Sandy lives in our basement, his bed and tin clothes cabinet separated off by curtains and a rug. On Sunday mornings we thunder down the stairs and jump on him as he tries to sleep off his Saturday night. He is our favorite uncle, mostly because he lives with us, but also because he has a magical way with broken-spoked bikes and skates without keys. He fixes Amy's favorite push toy without her even asking, though taking out the popping balls that make so much noise that his head hurts. When he is at work, up to his knuckles in the grease from someone's car, we jump on his bed and try to peek at the covers of the Playboys he has hidden on the top of his clothes cabinet, always straightening his blankets and pillow afterward, and giggling with guilt.

In the summer we barely clear our dinner dishes before disappearing down the block for our nightly games of Kick the Can and Capture the Flag, the older kids forced by parents to let us little ones play. In the winter we switch to King of the Mountain on the hard-packed snowbanks, or build igloos out of the chunks the snowplows leave on the curb.

The year I am in kindergarten the whole family climbs into the station wagon for the drive to Borgess Hill. It is the steepest and iciest in town, and we pile as many as we can fit onto the sled, me in front, Pat behind me, Jane behind her, and Uncle Sandy in the back. Steve runs behind, pushing, his boots churning on the snow, and then jumps on as we fly, the wind ripping screams from our mouths. Halfway down we tip, and the metal runner of the sled slices over my boot and breaks my ankle. For weeks Steve, four years older, has to drag me to school on the same sled, my cast in a plastic bread bag to keep it from getting wet. One day he stops at the top of a hill and gives the sled a shove, and I hurtle down the sidewalk, lugelike, between the snowbanks.

The year I am seven the snow is so deep that drivers put orange Styrofoam balls on the tips of their car antennas so they can see each other at intersections. We kids dig a tunnel from our house to the neighbors', then burrow back home for hot chocolate, our scarves and mittens dripping in the hall.

At Christmas we line up every year, oldest to youngest, Amy standing on tiptoe and still not reaching high enough to hang her stocking on the hooks that line the mantel. In the summers we pose again, draped on the sign of the year's campground or national park, our beagle Penny out front.

Don't you take the picture, Dad says to Mom. You always cut off everyone's head.
By the time I am twelve we are living in Haslett, Michigan, where I spend the summer bored, experimenting with blue eye shadow and giving myself hickeys in the hollow of my elbow as I practice kissing. 

Over Labor Day weekend Mom breaks out in a rash so fierce she has to be rushed to a doctor. Her body is covered in hives. It's hard for her to breathe. Later we find out why. Without telling anyone, she has interviewed for a job in a doctor's office. Dad isn't making much money, the bills are piling up, we kids keep growing and needing clothes and shoes and ever more groceries, and besides, doesn't she deserve validation? Doesn't she deserve respect and a paycheck and recognition for her intelligence and training and skills? 

Still, the anticipation of telling Dad has made her so anxious that she gets hives. 

Dad harrumphs. 

So I got the job, Mom says. 

Wow, I say. 

Cool, Steve says. 

We all look to Dad. 

Don't forget you still have responsibilities around here, he says. 
I babysit for the Johnstons, who live down the street. Easy-to-entertain kids, an early bedtime, color TV, and a selection of snacks. Like a lot of families in the neighborhood, the Johnstons called my house to see if any of the Latus girls could babysit, and my parents told them I'd be happy to. They don't ask me first. 

At ten 'til six I say good-bye to my mom and dad, who are in their room dressing for a party at the country club. Tomorrow I'm going to the mall with my girlfriends, where we will dip hot pretzels in mustard while we thumb through Partridge Family posters. I'm saving up for a glow-in-the-dark bead curtain that I saw last week in Spencer Gifts.

Bedtime is at eight, Mrs. Johnston says. They don't need baths, but you do need to help them with their teeth.

More quietly she adds, It's okay if you can't get them down until 8:30, and once they're asleep you can help yourself to anything in the fridge. And there are cookies in the breadbox. I got you some Coke, too.

I love these kids and want some just like them, plump and soft and adoring. They hold tight to my fingers as we walk around the yard looking at bugs and dandelions. We wave as their parents drive off, then go inside, where the kids tackle me and we fall to the floor, wrestling and laughing, playing Hide-and-Seek and Tag.

At eight o'clock I shepherd them into their bedroom and help them into their pajamas, then into the bathroom to brush their teeth.

Please, one more monster game, the younger one asks.

What? I say, rising up to my full five feet one. You want the monster?

And with that I stamp toward them, my hands high, my fingers clawed. They run away, screaming and laughing, and I chase them down the hall and into the living room. We are wrestling again when the door opens and Mr. Johnston walks in.

I am on the floor, flushed and disheveled.

I forgot something, he says, and walks past us to his bedroom.

</file>

<file= AmE06_G56>

Series books, according to their critics, are not "literature"; they are "products in book form" (Lanes 113). The commercial nature of series, "books as merchandise," is their defining characteristic, and it plays into every aspect of their "communications circuit" (Darnton 30 - 31), as well as the texts themselves.8 Kathy Martin cannot be understood apart from the realm of commerce. Yet it is significant that serial novels like these are "the most read and the most frequently published," as Antonio Gramsci once pointed out (qtd in Denning 67). The value-laden notions traditionally associated with series books, terms such as "hack" writer or "mass market," and adjectives like "commercial," or even "juvenile," cloud our understandings of how these books may represent a serious political, if not literary, undertaking. Adolescent girls, for their part, might have read these books to learn about nursing, or for the promise of romance or adventure, but they may have taken away ideas about race relations, economic injustice, environmental degradation, and imperialism.
Discussing the evolution of the dime novel, a precursor to the series book, Michael Denning suggests that "the tendency of the industry was to shift from selling an 'author,' who was a free laborer, to selling a 'character,' a trademark whose stories could be written by a host of anonymous hack writers whose celebrity could be protected in court." He thus speaks of the "subordination of the author" (20). Like most series, the Kathy Martin books were rapidly produced by anonymous writers, and the publisher retained the rights to the characters. The authors, however, were far from "subordinate."
Over the course of her career, Sterne had worked as a teacher, a textbook consultant, and as a children's book editor.9 Her first books were published in the 1930s, but she began writing full time in the 1950s. The seriousness of purpose evident in books like her narrative of the Amistad slave rebellion, The Long Black Schooner (1950), or her biography of the African-American educator and activist, Mary McLeod Bethune (1957), suggests that she aspired to literary distinction among juvenile authors. Even so, she moved relatively easily between the worlds of "hack" writer and respected author. Before taking on the Kathy Martin series in 1958, Sterne had done several Disney tie-ins, a 1953 version of the Bible for "family reading," and a 1956 adaptation of Louisa May Alcott's Little Women (1868 - 69), among other projects for Golden Press. Her daughter Barbara had collaborated with her on many of these things and had written several books of her own.
Correspondence makes it clear that Sterne cared most about her "civil rights" writing, and the Kathy books certainly subsidized these more "serious" literary efforts. However, putting the series in this light should not diminish its significance as a political gesture. As a former editor, Sterne must have understood Lynch's concerns about propriety, but may have consciously resisted the formulaic, commercial imperative at the core of Lynch's chastising. She wrote these books for the money, but never just for the money.
Children's book publishers have traditionally been divided between trade and mass-market presses, the former oriented toward school and public library sales, and the latter "to sales through discount, department, and bookstores" (Haugland 50). This split was especially pronounced prior to the paperback revolution in the 1960s and 1970s that made trade children's books widely affordable. Citing a study in the mid-1970s that surveyed a "library-oriented" and a "mass-market-oriented publisher and their clients," Ann Haugland notes that "the two groups had very different conceptions of what a children's book ought to be" (50). The former firmly believed that children's literature should be "innovative, unusual, reflective of an author's unique aesthetic vision and definitely not 'formulaic'" (51). Editors at the mass-market publisher, in contrast, emphasized "the importance of standard categories and the subjects and approaches that previous sales had shown to be popular with children and those who bought books for them" (51). Instead of starting with an author's manuscript and helping to shape it into a book, a "merchandise book" editor "often starts with a particular and fairly accurately calculated market firmly in mind, then tailors his books to reach it" (Lanes 115).
As the top-selling fiction series of a press that is virtually synonymous with "mass market," the Kathy books most certainly were "commercial." They were formulaic; they were quickly written, based on outlines that needed approval from the publisher; they were printed on cheap newsprint stock; and they sold for a dollar, with advertisements for other Golden series on the back of them. Their production and marketing probably drew upon the strategies that Golden Books had employed for its more established lines, as well as those used by publishers for the Stratemeyer syndicate, which perfected techniques for efficiently creating and widely marketing what became known as "fifty-cent juveniles," including the Nancy Drew books. Key to series' sales was the incentive to own a complete collection: In theory, once readers were hooked, any book in a series could sell - hence production rates had to be brisk to keep up with the demand for new books. We do not have exact sales figures for the Kathy books, but for hardcover books priced at a dollar to make a profit, they had to be sold in huge quantities. Moreover, because readers often shared series books among friends, the Kathy books may have circulated even more widely than sales would suggest.
Mass-market series like the Kathy Martin books were not reviewed in the usual outlets, they did not win awards, and they were kept out of most libraries. Indeed, they represent a debased genre among books already at the bottom of a literary hierarchy: juvenile and adolescent literature. Yet these books were commercially successful because their creators were highly attuned to audience desire. Moreover, the medium held certain attractions to prospective authors besides the promise of an income. Because editors were often the only direct mediators between authors and audiences of series books, authors found a level of relative freedom in the genre, despite the confines of that form. Lack of critical attention was accompanied by a lack of policing. Indeed, Sterne was under fairly close surveillance by the FBI during the years she wrote the Kathy Martin books, but the books are never mentioned in her file of over 300 pages.
Although (or perhaps, because) the Kathy Martin books were unavailable in most libraries and dismissed as trash by "cultured" adults, young people treasured them. Indeed, Kathleen Chamberlain suggests that young readers "may have been so devoted to series" because "the books formed a way for children to assert their own power and authority by reading those works of which they knew many adults disapproved" ("Wise" 206). As with romance readers of the 1970s and 1980s whom Janice Radway has studied, reading Kathy Martin and other series may likewise be seen as a "declaration of independence" on the part of adolescent girls who had little control over other aspects of their lives (Radway 11). Inscribing their names on the inside covers, girls marked their ownership of and devotion to the Kathy books; purchase one of the books today and you will likely find its previous owner's name. Proud child owners insured that series books would remain a profitable branch of juvenile publishing despite a lack of "institutional" market share, and loyal readers of the Kathy books, whose fan letters in careful cursive writing call the books "so interesting and encouraging" (Nancarrow) and show great devotion to both Kathy Martin as a character and to "Josephine James" as an author, provided an additional kind of compensation. Like the women in Radway's study, readers of the Kathy Martin books "understood themselves to be reading particular and individual authors, whose special marks of style they could recount in detail, rather than identical, factory-produced commodities" (Radway 11). Kathy's creators spoke very directly and personally to adolescent girls of all classes, rather than writing for librarians who told girls what to read. In the end, one might say the challenge for Sterne and Lindsay was to write books that were both formulaic and reflective of a "unique aesthetic vision" - the payback being wide readership.
The authors' relationship to their pseudonym further challenges the "anonymous hack" norm for series authors. Describing themselves as a mother - daughter team with "common interest in a nursing career," Sterne and Lindsay are quoted on the jacket of the first book explaining that their close collaboration led them to adopt a single name - a name, incidentally, that the authors chose themselves. Although they initially asked Sterne and Lindsay to use a pseudonym, the editors ultimately offered them the option of using their own names. Sterne and Lindsay stuck with Josephine James, but still kept a level of authorial control that made the books their own, and their true identities were an open secret.
Sterne and Lindsay's "common interest in a nursing career" was something of a fiction, but it suggested that the series grew out of the authors' creative impulses rather than from a commercial imperative devised by the publisher (Lindsay had a year of pre-med training but never pursued it, while Sterne once wrote a book, Amarantha Gay, M.D. [1933], about a woman doctor). Arguably, it was hard not to have some "interest" in nursing, given its visibility at this time: In addition to stories in women's magazines pointing to nurses as "a major national need" (Hickey) and the nursing profession as the site of the "nation's number 1 womanpower shortage" (Nelson), Scholastic regularly ran features on careers in nursing around this time. Publishers quickly became attuned to this trend. During and after World War II, when "'career girls' really come into their own as series heroines" (Chamberlain, "'Every'" 107), nursing series ranked most prominently among the various career series that provided girls with a taste of life as nurses, stewardesses, reporters, advertising copy-writers, actresses, and television news anchors. During the war there was "Cherry Ames, nurse; Penny Marsh, nurse; Nancy Naylor, flying nurse; Nancy Dale, Army nurse; and Ann Barlett, Navy Nurse"; after the war, they were joined by Jean Craig, Nancy Kimball, and Kathy Martin (107).
Far from growing out of Sterne and Lindsay's "common interest in a nursing career," the Kathy Martin series began after an editor at Golden proposed the idea to Sterne in 1958 in the process of launching the press's new line of series fiction. The market had apparently proven that every publisher of series fiction needed at least one series devoted to nursing; Kathy Martin served this function when Golden Press added Fiction for Boys and Girls to its Little Golden Books, Giant Golden Books, Little Golden Records, and various other products.
While series publishers traditionally encouraged the use of pseudonyms to make individual authors expendable, in this case the editors acknowledged that the level of authorial control distinguished the Kathy series from its peers. As editor Pete Borden put it, "Almost any writer worth his salt could pick up a story idea and produce a Brains Benton story in two weeks." In contrast, "Kathy stories are hand-grown. Hand-growing accounts for their success." When another writer was added to the team to speed production, the person chosen was a relative of Sterne and Lindsay with no experience writing children's books, again pointing to the authors' control over the creative process.
Examining the Kathy books' production also complicates the typical assumption that mass-market editors are geared, above all else, toward making a profit. Trade editors such as Margaret McElderry and Ursula Nordstrom have been characterized as part of a "strong, often subversive matriarchal" tradition within a patriarchal business society (Hearne 755). However, the same adjectives are rarely applied to mass market editors, whose skill at producing books that sell well is usually the only one highlighted. However, if Josephine James deserves a second look, so do her handlers. Despite the conflict over content evident in Lynch's complaints about a storyline that had seemed too "grim," for the editors as well as the authors more than commerce was at stake. Indeed, there are several indications that the editors shared, or at least supported, the authors' political convictions. For instance, when editors agreed to let Hartman -  who was in political trouble - join the Josephine James team, Sterne and Lindsay were told he did not have to sign his name to the contracts.

</file>

<file= AmE06_G57>

Criticisms that pointed to Goodspeed's theological agenda were relatively scarce, suggesting that the majority of his opponents did not feel much antipathy toward the University of Chicago or understand that institution's contest with fundamentalist
Protestantism or, far more likely, that his opponents were not primarily fundamentalists. Rather, it seems, they were composed of moderate members of the broad Protestant mainstream, individuals with strong loyalties to traditional religious practices and texts. In fact, it appears that Goodspeed's ability to conciliate the conservative viewpoint with arguments about "original languages" saved him the wrath of many a suspicious conservative. After all, fundamentalists and other conservative evangelicals were the Protestants with the most interest in remaining faithful to the original biblical languages and conveying that biblical message to new generations. While a handful of fundamentalists worried that Goodspeed was using the Bible as a Trojan horse for theological modernism, others championed this alleged religious subversiveness of Goodspeed's work. The religious skeptic and former Presbyterian minister Mangasar Magurditch Mangasarian of the Cordon Club, a "truth-seeking," "rationalist" association, praised Goodspeed for treating the "Holy Bible" as he would any other book. For him, Goodspeed's work "fully succeeded in destroying [the Bible] as the 'Word of God.'" Mangasarian fundamentally agreed with much of Machen's analysis.
But rather than denouncing Goodspeed for his mishandling of the Word of God, Mangasarian celebrated him as a latter-day Thomas Jefferson, the president who famously excised supernatural occurrences from the gospel accounts. He suggested that the reaction to the American Translation occurred because Goodspeed "had in a number of instances destroyed ... certain cherished dogmas founded on texts which have now disappeared .... If every new translation is going to trim the Christian creed, what certainty is there left for believers?" Only enough, he proposed, for them to become truth-seeking members of the Cordon Club.
A later review by Mencken, in 1926, further explicated the corrosiveness of Goodspeed's work for popular religious devotion. Having rewritten the Declaration of Independence in American slang
and formally praised American English for its vigor and originality, Mencken's tongue-in-cheek denunciation of Goodspeed's attempt to Americanize the Bible was, of course, highly ironic. In his editorial "Holy Writ," he rebuked Goodspeed and his translator peers, warning them that they would suffer hell for their pious efforts. Mencken criticized his rendering of the Lord's Prayer and his excision of part of John 8 (which contained the story of Jesus' encounter with the woman caught in adultery, omitted because of its absence in the earliest manuscripts) in light of the loss of poetic phraseology. To Mencken's lights, modern language translators had no "religious feeling." By seeking to articulate religious meaning rationally, they were left, in the end, with nothing: "Religion is most potent to sway the mind, indeed, when the evidences of its objective truth are most vague and unconvincing - when it is apprehended, not as fact at all, but as sheer poetry, the very negation of fact." Christianity, according to Mencken, owed all its modern successes to the poetic quality of its sacred canon. Since poetry does not convince but, rather, gains its appeal by depriving people of the wish to be convinced, it alone could support religion in the modern era. Inasmuch as modern-languagetranslators tried to objectivize and de-poeticize the Scriptures, they were undermining Christianity in ways comparable to fundamentalists. If Mencken disliked Goodspeed's translation (and it's unclear how far we should take his review), the aversion likely stemmed more from his opposition to the liberal Protestant establishment's increasing cultural authority than
Goodspeed's bad literary style. Yet, his well-known antipathy for fundamentalism - expressed here as well-kepthim equally at odds with conservatives. In his characteristic form, therefore, Mencken
composed a critique that would offend as many readers as possible. 
The initial hostility and lingering uneasiness surrounding Goodspeed's New Testament suggest that few people in the 1920s shared the full range of his cultural and intellectual assumptions. Scholars who shared his theory of language did not always agree that modern English was good for America. Conservatives who admired his attempt to get back to the original Greek often worried that his theological views were working their way into the text. Clergy who might otherwise have favored the translation for readability found themselves defending the traditional biblical associations of the KJV in the interests of the laity. And, yet, nearly all parties involved in the debate shared a broad commitment to the growth and development of American biblical civilization.
Goodspeed intended his translation to advance biblical civilization by providing a modern religious vernacular closely correlated both with the original biblical languages and contemporary English usage. He rooted this conviction in his understanding of the particular linguistic situation in which the Greek texts had been composed; the New Testament texts were written in the Greek of the commoner, not the intellectual. This approach, Goodspeed believed, would be refreshingly novel for contemporary readers who might assume that the Bible was an old-fashioned book having little to do with the details of everyday life. He thus argued for the relevance of the Bible and
employed a characteristically evangelical tactic in advancing his theologically modernist assumptions. His critics, however, emphasized the positive aspects of the distinction between religious language and the language of everyday life. The KJV's English, they maintained, elevated religious language - andthus religion itself - abovethe crass, market-driven commercialism of the 1920s. The debate thus centered on the proper location and character of religiously authoritative texts in a stable democracy. Goodspeed saw the biblical texts taking modern form for the sake of uplift and progress, while his critics believed that such texts needed to be partitioned off or separated from ordinary life for the sake of a vital continuity in religious culture.
And, in fact, Goodspeed saw the debate in these terms. In a speech titled "Why Translate the Bible?" given to eager, mostly Protestant audiences across the country, the Chicago professor argued that "the great danger in democracy is vulgarity; in art, in literature, in drama, in speech, in social customs, even in religion." Goodspeed almost defensively insisted that he was no cultural leveler, no friend of "Bolshevism." What protected a democracy was cultural achievement, or "Humanism," "the sense of taste, restraint, good will, elevation, poise, fairness, understanding, socialibility [sic].""In his view, the Bible and religious language, in order to have any beneficial cultural
influence, must become part of the best of the cultural vernacular as it is. And such a state of affairs could only be achieved when the best of science, in this case contemporary biblical criticism, was applied to the Bible. Only in this way could the Bible's message be truly decipherable and thus applicable to human circumstances.
Conservatives, too, had culture's preservation in mind. But they believed that American culture needed religion and religious language to perform its work from without. The magnificence and other-worldliness of the KJV, in their view, stabilized a culture that might suffer from internal collapse. The 1920s, after all, brought the "Red Scare," a severely restricted policy on immigration, the era of the prohibition amendment, and violent race riots in the American heartland. Critics who attacked Goodspeed's project for its affinities with slang, the vaudeville stage, commercialism, jazz, populist religion, and the prize ring were articulating deep cultural insecurities. Religion, for them, was a force that acted upon culture, not a current within it.
Again, given Goodspeed's firm reputation as a theological modernist and the "conservative" quality of the reaction, one might be tempted to view this debate as just another episode in the contest between fundamentalist and modernist forms of American Protestantism. But, in fact, the debate over the American Translation obscures the clear line that scholars have often drawn between these parties.
Conservatives on the question of religious language could be found on both sides of the fundamentalist-modernist divide, as could progressives. For instance, Henry Sloan Coffin, a leading modernist minister, wrote Goodspeed expressing general approbation for the theological agenda that inspired the work but then concluded with this reservation: "I am still old fashioned enough not to want to see new translations used in the pulpit, as I think the old so magnificent and so rich both in language and association." Yet, many theologically conservative Protestants appreciated Goodspeed's attempt to capture the original Greek in the most accurate way possible, despite the fact that a few of them worried that his ideological commitments were affecting his translation. Such boundary blurring baffled religious editors from the outset of the controversy. The liberal-leaning Congregationalist, for example, had a difficult time coming to terms with the stance
of the Chicago Tribune in its "Monkeying" editorial: "The dear old Tribune strikes back at the doctor [Goodspeed] with an editorial that almost makes us believe that the rightful place of the Tribune is in the camp of the Fundamentalists. This hardly agrees, however, with the attacks the paper has been making on W.J.B."The author was, of course, referring to William Jennings Bryan, one-time presidential hopeful, a vocal fundamentalist, and, later, a prosecuting attorney in the Scopes "Monkey" Trial. Tellingly, very few fundamentalists or modernists spoke as such in their commentary on the translation's merits or demerits, even when it was common knowledge that it was a product of the modernist-affiliated University of Chicago Press.
If the silence of the fundamentalists tells us something of the religious climate of the time, the very vocal presence of a cohort of intellectuals and journalists, men and women who had less invested in
the question of religious authority than in expressing the Bible's special influence on Western and American civilization, is even more telling. Even though these pundits were highly dismissive of fundamentalist views of culture and the Bible, they did not hold any special place in their outlook for theological modernists, whose views of culture they deemed equally bankrupt. Such writers, many of them nominally Protestant, held that the otherworldly majesty of the King James Version was a cultural inheritance warranting preservation. They, therefore, advanced a notion of the KJV's cultural inspiration, stressing its privileged genealogy and formative role in shaping Western institutions. That these thinkers were among Goodspeed's most vocal and influential critics suggests that scholars need to move beyond the strictly theological in comprehending the early-twentieth-century Protestant mainstream. Again, the debate that Goodspeed sparked when he released the American Translation demonstrates that Americans were not simply divided on how to translate the Bible but that they also held varied and often contradictory understandings of the nature and cultural function of religion.
Goodspeed's New Testament went through a number of editions and press runs by 1927, when his colleague, J. M. Powis Smith, released the complementary Old Testament version of the American Translation. A few years later, both testaments were released together in The Bible: An American Translation (1931).92 By the middle of the century, Goodspeed's work had sold more than a million copies in its various incarnations, making it the University of Chicago Press's all-time bestseller.93 Yet, despite this impressive sales record, most remained convinced that the translation was unfit for steady public consumption, quite contrary to Goodspeed's wishes. In 1941, when the University of Chicago Press pursued relations with the Gideons International in hopes that they might disburse the Goodspeed New Testament, the Gideons refused the offer due to what they termed the "old-fashioned" nature of their operation. The organization sided with Goodspeed's conservative critics, arguing that "the Bible is a different book from all editions; we do not believe in modernizing it to the extent that it will look just like another book."
Around mid-century, however, the tide turned. When Goodspeed set out to write his memoir As I Rememberin 1953, "the international verdict had gone so sweepingly in my favor," he said, that he
felt obligated to apologize for revisiting the controversy. The challenge to the predominance of KJV that occupied so much of Goodspeed's life was finally taking root. Since then modern-language translations and translations appealing to special interest groups have continued to proliferate, especially among evangelicals, suggesting a complex genealogy for Goodspeed's unique configuration of cultural and theological commitments-indeed,one that calls into question the alleged conservatism of contemporary Protestant evangelicalism.

</file>

<file= AmE06_G58>

When Rose Stein told her family in the summer of 1893 that she wished to marry Louis Kirstein, she met with instant and strenuous opposition. The Steins, after all, were among Rochester's most prominent Jewish families, partners in the flourishing Stein-Bloch men's clothing company, pillars of the community - even if, but one generation back, their mother had been a wet nurse in Posen, Germany.[1]

Who was this Louis Kirstein? A nobody in their view, a large, coarse-looking man with limited education and income - and even more limited prospects. He did currently hold down a salesman's job for an optical firm, but though admittedly bright, congenial, and ambitious, he hadn't found work that genuinely engaged him or offered promise of a secure future. Nor did his history inspire confidence that he ever would.

Alarming tales had reached the stodgy Stein clan: Kirstein, it seemed, had only a grammar-school education, had left home at sixteen, ridden the rails as a hobo, worked as a janitor in a St. Louis brothel, and once been held in jail overnight for trying to peddle a worthless patent medicine. He had, though still in his late twenties, already gone bankrupt three times - once as part owner, player, and manager of a bush-league baseball team.

The words "sporting type," "maverick," and "outsider" clung to his name: he was said to like fine Cuban cigars (Corona Coronas) and well-tailored clothes, was a habitual (and lucky) poker player - and wasn't an observant Jew. Not that the Steins were, either, but somehow Louis should have been, given his otherwise unorthodox ways. No, Rose was told, the match was entirely unsuitable.

But Rose refused to yield. She felt certain that the man she'd fallen for couldn't be summarized by his hard-luck past, nor could his earlier missteps be taken as an accurate gauge of his character. The Louis Kirstein she knew was a charismatic man of integrity and generosity, a man of shrewd intelligence, unflagging optimism, and a tremendous appetite for life. Far from being a "sporting type," he believed strongly in the ideal of "service" - in using one's gifts and good fortune in behalf of those less fortunate. And, far from being a "fancy man," he adhered to standard middle-class values of hard work, civic-mindedness, and devotion to family. No, she would not give him up. (Nor would she be at all surprised when, within a decade, Louis would begin a rapid ascent to wealth and influence.)

Rose's obstinacy was not an entire surprise to her family. Though she'd grown up a conventional enough child, and was now seemingly content with the decorous confines of well-to-do womanhood - a keen interest in fashion, embroidery and lace, museumgoing, the arts and concerts - her six siblings had been warned at an early age, so one of them later remembered, "never to cross Rosie because she might have one of her crazy tantrums." Her daughter Mina would later write of her, "She was not given to revealing her feelings, only exploding when they were injured."

Ultimately Rose's parents gave their reluctant consent to an engagement. But they stipulated that marriage could not take place for three years, during which time they confidently expected their daughter to change her mind. She didn't. When the three-year waiting period was up, in January 1896, she and Louis quietly wed - and promptly moved to Boston. This further aggravated family disapproval. Rose's parents didn't cut her off, but when she gave birth to her first child, Mina, a year later, it was not her own mother who came down from Rochester to stand by but rather Louis's widowed mother.

Once settled in a modest rented apartment, Louis went to work for the well-established opticians Andrew J. Lloyd & Company, and began to spend considerable time on the road selling eyeglasses. His own father, Edward, had been a lens grinder in Jena, near Leipzig, a city that for a time had been a center of liberal thought and home to Fichte, Hegel, and Schiller. Edward and his wife, Jeanette, had been adherents of the revolutionary uprising of 1848, and in the wake of its failure, had fled Germany, along with hordes of like-minded social radicals, for the United States. There Edward had found work with the Bausch and Lomb optical company in Rochester, the same city where, some dozen years later, Rose's father, Nathan Stein, became a wealthy man - thanks to contracts he secured during the Civil War to make uniforms for the Union army (uniforms, it was widely rumored, that were cut from shoddy material).

The Steins' ongoing condescension to Louis dissipated somewhat with the birth of Mina, in 1897; to them it apparently signified seriousness and permanence. The renegade couple was invited to return to Rochester, and Louis offered employment with the family company, Stein-Bloch. He took his time accepting: the Steins had treated him as unworthy, and Louis had a settled sense of self-regard.

Still, he missed his mother, who'd remained in Rochester, living modestly in a small gray frame house in a decaying section of the city. Kindhearted, politically liberal, courageous (she was crippled with arthritis but never complained), and cultivated - her special passions were Goethe and Heine - Grandma Kirstein was the only religious member of the family; she read the Old Testament in German, prayer books in Hebrew, and insisted that Louis attend synagogue on Rosh Hashanah and Yom Kippur. Despite her limited means, Grandma Kirstein (who died in 1914) would treat visitors to a spread of marzipan, pretzels, Apfelstrudel, and licorice sticks. Should Louis be in town, his favorite preserve, quince jelly, would be served, and should Mina accompany him, Grandma made her favorite - Küchelchen, little drops of sponge cake dipped in fat.

An additional reason for returning to Rochester was that Rose also missed her family, and especially two of her sisters, Molly and Jane. (She felt less close to her other siblings, and downright distant from her two difficult, somewhat showy bachelor brothers, one of whom summered in a palatial "cottage" and the other notoriously "not nice" to his female help.)
In 1901 the Kirsteins finally decided to return to Rochester, and Louis accepted a job with Stein-Bloch as a traveling salesman. They moved into a modest-size house on Portsmouth Terrace, around the corner from Rochester's most elegant street, East Avenue, which boasted the pillared mansion of George Eastman, inventor of the box Kodak camera. Louis had once worked for Eastman and became a personal acquaintance; it was rumored that he'd rejected Eastman's offer to join the Kodak firm, convinced that the new "toy" was a passing fad.

The Kirsteins' house was securely nestled within a cluster of Stein homes. Rose's widowed sister, Molly, lived next door with her daughter; sister Jane lived two houses down the street with her husband, Martin Wolff, owner of Rochester's prestigious Lyceum Theatre, and their two children. Young Mina Kirstein soon decided that her favorite neighbors were not her relatives but the firemen who lived around the corner, fed her pears from the tree, and lifted her up to pat the heads of their beautiful white horses.

Rose managed to give the interior of their home some distinction through a generous sprinkling of potted palms, large ferns, and a number of marble statues - a near life-sizeFisher Boy, the bust of a Gypsy atop a twisted green marble pillar, and in the sitting room, a small Cupid and Psyche. She bought a big Morris chair for Louis, stocked the bookshelves (Rose was herself a devoted reader), and provided Mina, who'd early been labeled "precocious" - at seven she was reading Shaw's You Never Can Tell - with piano lessons, dancing school, a governess who spoke both French and German, and clothes imported from the fashionable New York stores Best and Peter Thompson.

Both of Rose's bachelor brothers, and a brother-in-law as well, worked in the Stein-Bloch business. Nathan Stein, the quick-tempered family patriarch, required (until his death in 1908) that all family members attend him daily at lunch in his impressive Gibbs Street brick mansion, with its ornate mirrors, cut-glass vases filled with fresh American Beauty roses, superb Belter rosewood chairs - and two servants on duty behind his chair to prevent his ever being kept waiting. After lunch the men would retire for a game of billiards - which Nathan somehow always won. Though a considerable despot, he had a soft spot for his grandchildren, and Mina seems to have been a favorite. As an adult she would remember him as having been "very kind" to her, sending her off every Saturday for a shampoo and manicure with a Mrs. Davenport (whom Mina, later in life, suspected had been Grandpa Stein's "special friend").
Rose Kirstein gave birth to a second child, a boy, on May 4, 1907, and Louis (who was forty-one at the time of his son's birth) named the baby Lincoln in honor of his idol, Abraham Lincoln. Ten-year-old Mina's reaction was less benign. "He looks like a lobster!" she screamed on first seeing him - and Rose promptly ordered her from the bedroom, into the arms of her comforting father. The two loved each other deeply, and Louis reassured Mina that her special place in his heart was inviolable. The essential family alliances, never rigid, had been formed: father and daughter, mother and son.

Mina quickly came round about the new baby, however and on the nurse's day off, took to wheeling the infant, whom she now declared "ravishingly beautiful," along the street, demanding and getting admiring exclamations from the neighbors. Mina would become Lincoln's closest confidante when he was growing up, the person to whom he would turn in distress - the "Dearest" of his youthful letters. When the Kirsteins' third and last child, George, was born two and a half years later, Lincoln's initial reaction was even more murderous than Mina's had been toward him; allowed to watch baby George being bathed, Lincoln grabbed a tin of talcum powder and tried to bash his brother's head in. But in the case of Lincoln and George, the relationship would never grow into anything approaching a profound connectedness.

Though Louis and Rose were not observant Jews, he - unlike Rose - felt deeply committed to his social obligations as a Jew and would later, in his son Lincoln's affectionate words, become Boston's leading "bully and blackmailer" in raising money for assorted Jewish causes and charities. When in 1914, for example, Louis was denied, as a Jew, the right to play golf at any of the area's country clubs, he began a yearlong fight to establish the all-Jewish Kernwood Country Club (and was promptly elected its president). "True to our traditions," Louis said in his speech inaugurating the club, "we were not discouraged. Rather, we were determined . . . [to] show that we had the will, the force and the character to accomplish what we deemed necessary for our development."[2]

Similarly Louis insisted all his life on adhering to a limited number of Jewish rituals: he faithfully attended synagogue on the High Holy Days, and he automatically assumed that his newborn son, Lincoln, should be circumcised. But instead of turning to the traditional religious specialist, a mohel, to carry out the procedure, the Kirsteins decided to let the family doctor perform it. He botched the job, septicemia set in, and Lincoln nearly died. To save him, the sweat glands in his groin were surgically removed, leaving physical and psychological scars, locker-room concealments, and castration nightmares that would haunt Lincoln into adolescence; and leaving as well a small knot of loosely attached flesh that at age twelve he would - in what he subsequently described as "a fit of hysterical nervousness" - hack off with his mother's nail scissors. When George was born, he was left uncircumcised.

The terror of nearly losing her baby left Rose prone to panic every time Lincoln had a sniffle, hint of infection, or mood swing - and there were many, since he grew up a sickly child, given (in his own words) "to fits of anxiety . . . and despair." Late in life he laconically summarized the intertwined incitement to hysteria between himself and his mother: her "fathomless apprehension determined more of my character than was necessary."

</file>

<file= AmE06_G59>

Poised at the heart of so much open land, Amarillo, too, sprawled in a sort of languid disregard, as though territorial hegemony might make up for all that loneliness. Route 66 cut through the center of town as a streamlined reminder of what was out there to the west, and the trucks roared through town day and night, slaves to hope and white-line fever, heading for California or just somewhere else. The steak houses and truck stops at either end of the city confirmed these great distances, offering twenty-four-ounce T-bones along with the diesel fuel, and the neon from the all-night signs must have looked from the sky like paths of light - bright flashes of pink and green and white as the town grew sparser, flanked on the highway to the east and west alike by miles of open country.

Downtown in the 1950s was only a few blocks long, and the two banks, the two movie theaters, the Silver Grill Cafeteria, and the Amarillo Grain Exchange were all within shooting distance of one another. The Mary E. Bivins Memorial Library stood on the outskirts of these necessities, on Tenth and Polk, a generous old Georgian mansion with two sets of stone steps up to its wide verandas. The place had been built as a private home at the turn of the century, and its interiors still held traces of domestic calm -  the foyer smelled wonderfully of floor wax and printer's ink and no doubt years' worth of muted librarians' cologne. The books were spread luxuriantly over four floors, with the aisles between shelves feeling as wide as city streets. It was here that an entire generation of kids enjoyed a certain benign neglect in the scorching Texas summers: Scores of mothers deposited their children at the library each day to snatch a few hours of freedom in between the swimming pool and the grocery store. The place was safe, it was cool (in the days before air-conditioning, we had only swamp coolers), and, with its gruff librarians posted like marines between Adult Fiction and the checkout desk, it offered a semblance of day-care-cum-self-improvement. In a city five hundred miles from the Texas Gulf Coast and a day's car ride from the mountains of neighboring New Mexico, the town pools and the library were the closest thing a lot of people had to getting away. Our idea of escape was an order of fries at the snack bar of the Western Riviera - a cross-shaped turquoise swimming pool slapped across the prairie like an SOS sign to God - and then the insouciant promise of the library, where you could lose yourself for hours in sanctioned daydreams.

Maybe such repositories of childhood are always graced by memory, each of them archives of that wider world to come. But for me those rooms were my Elysian fields, possessing a grandeur and reach that would blur over time but scarcely diminish after I had taken flight. My mother drove us to the library in an old Ford station wagon, two-tone Palomino Pink, and I can see it still, idling on the street below, as I half staggered down the stone steps with my weekly haul. There was a limit to the number of books, probably ten or twelve, that children were allowed, and the librarian at first admonished me that my appetites were likely to prove grander than my capabilities. But I was bored beyond measure without a book in my hand, and each week I surprised her by showing up for more.

This doggedness had revealed itself early on, an adaptive trait for a would-be toddler who had struggled to walk until well past the age of two. By the time I finally got to my feet, I stayed there -  a victory that must have assured me, on some profound and preverbal level, that determination was a mighty ally. Certainly it proved useful in the library's summer reading contests, where, one sweltering July, our literary progress was tracked by tiny flags ascending a papier-mâché mountain. Each Friday the young explorers would report to base camp to summarize the books we had finished; once the librarian had determined we were telling the truth, she would move our flags closer to the summit. I remember this textual expedition with pain and pleasure both: the giddy journey into higher altitudes, as I left the pack behind, the weekly anticipation of receiving our sentry's seal of approval.  And finally, the misery of coming in second to a boy in my age group - I was probably nine - who had dared to outread me. The realms of athletics and other hand-eye endeavors had found me thus far undistinguished. When she was five, my sister had drawn a horse of such promise that the picture won a local contest; I promptly got out the tracing paper and copied her masterpiece, an act that suggested the visual pursuits be left to her. 

What I possessed was a capacity to absorb and retain great quantities of words, a skill useful in spelling bees, Latin conjugations, and, for one shining moment, onstage. My dramatic talents were confined mostly to a deep second alto, but I snared the lead in the sixth-grade school play simply because no other child could memorize the lines. Dressed in a red, white, and blue flowing gown that my mother had painstakingly sewn, I was cast as the small embodiment of the American flag. Like a one-girl chorus in a Greek drama, my role was to deliver great swatches of truth and beauty from a pedestal on high. "I am the American flag!" began my soliloquy, then marched on through the ages to the rockets' red glare. 

Such fervor must have met with a forgiving crowd in those Cold War and Camelot years. With the native-son exception of Lyndon Baines Johnson in 1964, Amarillo would vote overwhelmingly Republican in every presidential election for the last half of the twentieth century - a conservatism that displayed its colors everywhere from Sunday-morning sermons (where might was always right) to young girls camouflaged as American flags. My father had been a master sergeant in the Eighth Air Force during the Second World War, stationed for three years in a supply-command base in Blackpool, England, until months after the European theater was over. A tall, brown-haired man with pool-dark eyes and a slow, trustworthy grin, he had the type of young-Jimmy-Stewart physical stature that Hollywood had lionized in its soldier-heroes. I was born five years after his return, in 1951, and I grew up cloaked in the sweet mysteries of his having belonged to such an exotic mission. This aura of intrigue was heightened by the stories he told and the ones he wouldn't: the poker games he'd played and won throughout the war, the scar on his chest he refused to explain but that I imagined was a knife wound. Mostly, though, I had a notion of my father as a soldier in charge of a company of men, where his physical strength and bluster-rough camaraderie must have been on full display. For a child, these heroic images were part of a larger dimension that included physical warmth and the smell of coffee and Camel cigarettes; taken together, they offered a portrait of a dad who was already larger than life. When I stood on that stage in my patriotic garb, delivering my lines to a full house, I knew the audience held a man who had come back from the war to take care of me. I must have believed myself at the very center of the home of the brave. 

The war novels were housed in the basement of the library, within the larger territory of Adult Fiction, where I wasn't supposed to be. So this was where I headed, preferring the remote aisles of the last rows of the alphabet, where I was less likely to be apprehended. There was a vague warning, issued by mothers and librarians both, to be on the lookout for strange, non-reading men - the ones who smelled of whiskey, nodded off at the reading tables, or seemed too interested in children. I was far too young to consider that most of these dispossessed were veterans of their own wars, real or illusory, and were, like me, simply looking for shelter. They never bothered me and I hardly noticed them, for I was curled up on the lineoleum before the rows of Leon Uris and Herman Wouk - men whom I followed, without anyone's permission, into battlefields and drop zones of untold danger and intrigue. Did other girls love war novels the way I did, in those years when the national mythos was still dizzy with the aura of Allied victory? I know only that my passion for the genre was probably the beginning of a tragic worldview - that Uris's Battle Cry andMila 18 would send me on to the grittier likes of James Jones and Norman Mailer; that the moral ambiguities of Wouk's The Caine Mutiny may have prepared me for Dostoyevsky in adolescence. IfThe Yearling had been my first literary instruction in grief - in the unalloyed pain of love and separation - then the messy heroics of fallen soldiers only secured that terrible lesson: the idea that valor could face off with evil in a field of mud, and lose. 

That's grim fare for a child, no doubt sweetened by the pulpy promise of Uris and Wouk; like most Americans, as William Dean Howells noted, I still preferred my tragedies with happy endings. And not for me the local wars of either Texas or the Deep South. I was bored by literary accounts of the Alamo and the Civil War, though this distinction, in which I eschewed provincial battles for the European fronts of modern war, had more to do with my father than with any sense of regional shame or estrangement. Because he had returned unscathed from "his" war - which had, astonishingly, managed to take place before I existed - I needed to know everything about it. The legacies of World War II were part of the story that mattered most: a home for my unfolding consciousness, with a good-and-evil plot that offered the last vestige of innocence in America. 

Our fathers had come home to a nation infused with relief and ideological certainty, two commodities that would never again be in such abundance. Buoyed by the ticker-tape parades and necessary fictions that allowed them to go on, they could look beyond the devastation to a future that promised, at least on the surface, protection from the past. The lines had been so thoroughly drawn by the rise of Nazi Germany and the aggression of Japan that our response was accompanied by a sort of mandatory amnesia - it was essential, if not easy, to overlook the legacies of a Great War two decades earlier, in what was billed as the War to End All Wars. 

Now we had Kilroy instead of doughboys; now we had the liberation of the camps to justify and amend the casualty lists.  And we had Dresden, too, instead of Ypres, but that was a subplot best neglected. If the campaigns in Europe had demonstrated America's valor, the ones embellished by Hollywood and Madison Avenue confirmed it. The darker story, found in classics like The Best Years of Our Lives and The Naked and the Dead, would outlive the boosterism of the postwar years, eventually becoming part of the elegiac truth about war and modern history. But for now, before the fences went up, we were still a land of suburban war games and toy bombers, where the Nazis always got what was coming and where nobody good ever died - except maybe for a few minutes, only to be resurrected as the other side's troop commander. Our dads were heroes - all of them were heroes, it seemed - and it was our tender burden to be the little soldiers who had made it all worthwhile. 

Huddled there in my barracks on the basement floor of the Mary E. Bivins Library, I envisioned myself to be of particularly steely character.

</file>

<file= AmE06_G60>

In 1921 in the Belgian Congo, a six-year-old girl from Chicago with a pith helmet on her blond curls walks at the head of a line of heavily laden native porters. Her mother walks next to her, holding a rifle and her daughter's hand.

In 1929, the girl huddles under quilts in a cabin in the Great North Woods, reading Weird Tales. The candle by her bed flickers as an alien gently removes a young human's brassiere.

On Christmas Eve 1934, a nineteen-year-old in a white beaded evening gown makes her debut. At the party she meets a handsome, dark-haired boy in a tie and tails. She makes a joke; he laughs, and makes another. Five days later they elope and marry.

In 1942, a divorcée wearing three-inch heels and a fox fur jacket goes down to a Chicago recruiting station and enlists in the army.

Sometime in the near future, a woman and a man meet an extraterrestrial exploring party. The man tries to protect the woman. The woman says she doesn't believe in women's chances on Earth, and asks the aliens to take her away.

In 1970, a man who does not exist sits down at a typewriter. He writes, "At last I have what every child wants, a real secret life. Not an official secret, not a Q-clearance polygraph-enforced bite-the-capsule-when-they-get-you secret, nobody else's damn secret but MINE."

James Tiptree, Jr., appeared on the science fiction scene in the late 1960s, writing fast-paced, action-filled stories about rocket ships, alien sex, and intergalactic bureaucratic anxiety. He was a brilliant and original talent, with a voice like no one else's: knowing, intense, utterly convinced of its authority and the urgency of its message. No one had ever seen or spoken to the owner of this voice. He wrote letters, warm, frank, funny letters, to other writers, editors, and science fiction fans. His correspondence was intimate and revealing, yet even his closest friends knew little more about "Tip" than his address: a post office box in McLean, Virginia.

He was rumored to be a government official or secret agent. He did seem to know a lot about spooks around the water cooler: his characters worked in "an unimportant bit of C.I.A." or remarked, "Paranoia hasn't been useful in my business for years, but the habit is hard to break." He had opinions about fishing, duck hunting, and politics. He was courtly and flirtatious with women. When one of his friends, the writer Robert Silverberg, sent him a letter on his wife's stationary, Tip answered that he had "shaved and applied lotion" before reading on. Silverberg pictured Tip as "a man of 50 or 55, I guess, possibly unmarried, fond of outdoor life, restless in his everyday existence, a man who has seen much of the world and understands it well." Men looked up to him. His women friends fell in love.

The stories that came out of PO Box 315 became more and more brilliant and disturbing. It wasn't the sex, and it wasn't the death, but it was the combination of the two. His stories read like urgent messages from some haunted house on the corner of Eros and Mortality. Humans meet aliens - and abandon their very souls for a chance to sleep with them. A man in love with the Earth kills off the human race, including himself, to save her. A mission to the stars finds an alien egg for which the colonists themselves turn out to be the sperm.

Like Philip K. Dick, Tiptree used science fiction to talk about the importance of empathy and explore what it means to be human - though he was less likely than Dick to question reality. Reality is there; the human project is to learn to see it, or die. Or learn to see ourselves: the reality of human flesh and emotions was what terrified, and fascinated, Tiptree. Can the body be trusted? Will it betray us? What does it want? Can we get rid of it?

This masculine writer, who let his readers in on the technology of space flight and the inner workings of government, also showed a surprising sympathy toward his female characters. He wrote about women's alienation in a world of men, and was held up as an example of a male feminist, a man who understood. Still, his stories were so full of action, philosophy, and desire for women that everyone knew they were dealing with a man. In 1975, in an introduction to a book of Tiptree's short stories, Robert Silverberg wrote of his friend, "It has been suggested that Tiptree is female, a theory that I find absurd, for there is to me something ineluctably masculine about Tiptree's writing."

He likened Tiptree's "lean, muscular, supple" stories to Hemingway's:

Hemingway was a deeper and trickier writer than he pretended to be; so too with Tiptree, who conceals behind an aw-shucks artlessness an astonishing skill for shaping scenes and misdirecting readers into unexpected abysses of experience. And there is, too, that prevailing masculinity about both of them - that preoccupation with questions of courage, with absolute values, with the mysteries and passions of life and death as revealed by extreme physical tests, by pain and suffering and loss.

In the same year, another of Tiptree's letter-friends, the feminist science fiction writer Joanna Russ, wrote him that a professor at a party had "asked me if you were a woman (!) by which I gather he can't recognize a female point of view if it bites him." When Tiptree participated in a written symposium on "Women in Science Fiction" as a token "sensitive man," Russ told him he had ideas "no woman could even think, or understand, let alone assent to."

By then Tiptree had introduced a protégée, Raccoona Sheldon, who seemed strongly influenced by Tiptree's style. No one, not even herself, had opinions about Raccoona's sex: she was a former schoolteacher who published little and wrote, "As for me, really the less said the better."

Tiptree did reveal a few facts about himself. He had been born in Chicago. His parents had been African explorers and his mother a writer. He had spent part of his childhood in colonial Africa, and the Second World War "in a Pentagon sub-basement." He was reluctant to reveal his true identity because he couldn't have the people around him know he was writing science fiction, and because he liked his secret life.

Then in late 1976, Tiptree told a few friends that his elderly mother had died. More than one of Tip's correspondents checked the Chicago papers and found an obituary for Mary Hastings Bradley, novelist, travel writer, and African explorer. Under "survivors" was listed her only child: Alice Bradley (Mrs. Huntington) Sheldon.

Ten years later, shortly before her death by suicide, Alli Sheldon wrote, "My secret world had been invaded and the attractive figure of Tiptree - he did strike several people as attractive - was revealed as nothing but an old lady in Virginia."

Alice Hastings Bradley Davey Sheldon, 1915--1987

As it turned out, the sixty-one-year-old Alice Sheldon, known as Alli, was just as attractive a figure as Tiptree had ever been, opinionated and theatrical, with a past that she revealed, bit by bit, in tantalizing anecdotes. The few friends she allowed into the home in McLean that she shared with her husband, Huntington "Ting" Sheldon, were fascinated by this eloquent storyteller. The writer Gardner Dozois called her "one of the most fascinating conversationalists I've ever met, brilliant, theatrical, far-ranging, strikingly perceptive." David Hartwell, her editor, said "Alli was electrifying, [...] enchanting both in person and in her fiction."

By the time she started writing science fiction she had already been a painter and an airforce intelligence officer. She had eloped with the "beautiful alcoholic poet" who had been seated on her left at her debut. She had worked for the CIA. She had earned a Ph.D. in experimental psychology. She had published a story in the New Yorker. She had begun and thrown out essays, scientific works, and novels.

She was born in 1915 as Alice Hastings Bradley, the cute, blue-eyed only child of two extraordinary parents. Her father, Herbert Bradley, was a lawyer who led three expeditions into unmapped Central Africa. Her mother, Mary Hastings Bradley, was a highly successful author of travel books and popular fiction. Both adult Bradleys were charismatic, energetic, public people whose adventures gave the family an exotic air.

Mary Bradley was an enormous presence in Alli's life: magnetic, generous, theatrical, extremely long-lived. Tiptree described his mother as

a kind of explorer-heroine, highly literate (Oxford & Heidelberg), yet very feminine whatever that is. You help her through doors - and then find out she can hike 45 miles up a mountain carrying her rifle and yours. And repeat next day. And joke. And dazzling looks [...] I am still approached by doddering wrecks, extinguished Scandinavian savants or what have you who want to tell me about Mother as a young woman.

Alli called her

a dazzling and formidable little person, a "queen bee" with two adoring males in addition to her husband. (In our Victorian culture they were Father's best friends.) She was gifted, beautiful, emotional, accomplished; a linguist, writer, spell-binding conversationalist - and a superb shot and brave endurer of considerable real hardships. [...] She didn't provide a model for me, she provided an impossibility.

Mary encouraged her daughter, first as an artist and then as a writer. But what Alli needed to say was not within the scope even of Mary's wide world, and what she did not learn from Mary's example was that women could say anything. She learned that women had to be very careful in order to speak at all.

Besides, Mary took up a great deal of emotional and creative space, writing her daughter's story, literally, in two children's books about the Bradleys' African travels. It took a radical subterfuge - taking on a new name, pretending to be a man, turning into a new person - for Alli to get that story back, to become someone else besides her mother's daughter.

Tiptree wasn't only a trick for saying things Alli couldn't. Like all interesting people, Alli had many sides or selves, and Tiptree gave her more room to be those selves: worldly, analytical, independent, bloodthirsty, and funny. He gave her space to play, make jokes, or, on a bad day, annihilate the human race. He gave her space to love women (though not always to like them). Sometimes he said things she didn't have words for, in the days when no one wrote honestly about women's experience. Many artists feel they have another persona who does their work for them, a secret self very much unlike the "me" of their daily interactions. Tiptree was that person for Alli: a writer who (he once said) longed to stop sweating over words and drafts and instead "storm naked with hard-on waving thru the world spouting whatever comes."

Tiptree helped Alli to write partly because he wrote science fiction. "Literature," with its famous injunction to "write what you know," cannot always help us discover what we don't know. Science fiction gave Alli a language for writing around the boundaries, for imagining what cannot yet be said. It has been seen as a masculine genre. And yet, with its metaphors for alienation and otherness, its unruly imagination, and its power to predict change, it is highly suited to talking about women's experience.

Alli chose her male pseudonym on a whim, in a supermarket, where a jar of Tiptree jam caught Alli's eye. She was sending out some science fiction stories as a joke, and she wanted a name "editors wouldn't remember rejecting." But the male name turned out to have many uses. It made her feel taken seriously when she wrote about what she knew: guns, hunting, politics, war. It let her write the way she wanted to write, with an urgency that was hers. It gave her enough distance and control to speak honestly about herself.

</file>

<file= AmE06_G61>

This essay brings together two fields in American studies that have rarely been placed in dialogue but have urgent things to teach each other. The first of these is the new men's history. By this I mean that strand of recent historiography devoted to revealing the historically variable character of male identity in the United States - to showing that despite the persistence of male domination and sexism over time, what counts as manly at a given moment is contingent and subject to historical revision. The most important practitioners in this field share a central intuition. Each has pointed to the years 1890 through 1920 as the decisive moment in the emergence of modern gender, when a shift from competitive to monopoly capitalism reshaped the prevailing sex-gender system and gave birth to something like our current distinction between masculinity and femininity.1
The second field, American modernism, is concerned with the same period. Since the mid-1980s, it too has seen a surge of interest in the category of manhood. Scholars have attended in particular to the variously conflicted constructions of masculinity among male modernists in an effort to render more nuanced our understanding of male modernists' gender politics. Perhaps the most striking example of this new emphasis is the work on Hemingway. Where scholars in the past often left unquestioned (or even celebrated) the popular myth of Hemingway's manly prowess, a host of books and articles now shows that the author's efforts to conform to that myth masked a deep ambivalence toward it.2 Articles on other modernist figures, including Ezra Pound, T. S. Eliot, F. Scott Fitzgerald, and William Faulkner, explore similar forms of ambivalence toward normative male identity while showing how this ambivalence complicated these authors' portrayal of women as well.3 The quantity of such work alone suggests the growth of a vigorous new field of literary study adjacent to the one being mapped by historians of U.S. manhood.
Yet I am struck by how rarely the new work on male modernists engages the historians' arguments.4 Many of the revisionary studies of Hemingway and Fitzgerald are so closely focused on psychofamilial matters that they neglect the historical forces that might have shaped these authors' lives.5 Other studies focus on only one aspect of the historical transformations - such as World War I or the New Woman - in ways that have the unfortunate effect of reducing a complex historical process to one of its constitutive strands.6 Critics who venture synthetic accounts of canonical modernism's gender politics are more apt to advance broadly historical arguments. They suggest, for example, that the emergence of aesthetic impersonality in this period reflected authors' need to find an adequately virile mode of expression in response to widespread fears about the ''feminine'' character of modern culture.7 But even here, the historical causes of such anxiety - why it emerged when, where, and in whom it did - often remain insufficiently elaborated.
My central contention in what follows is that these limitations stem from a methodological lacuna. We have lacked an adequate language for linking the intimate, subjective experience of gender in the fin-de-siècle United States with the historical forces that produced objective possibilities for gendered identity. This lack, I argue, can best be filled by pursuing a specific methodological opening - namely, the development of a revitalized and historically sensitive psychobiography. The guiding assumption of such an inquiry is that the modern bourgeois family is the key institution mediating objective and subjective dimensions of gender; a method attentive to this institution is therefore crucial to generating demonstrable claims about the relation between historical forces and aesthetic innovation. If we are to do more, that is, than assert a causal link between modernist form and the social transformations that gave rise to modern manhood -  if we are to trace the mediations by which those transformations were experienced subjectively, and at the requisite psychic depth for them to shape aesthetic choices - we need to turn our attention to an author's childhood and infantile experiences.8 We need to understand those transformations as more than objective, external phenomena that influenced adult authors whose gender identity was fully formed. We must try as well to examine how these transformations were lived by an author's parents, as well as how this parental experience was (often unconsciously) communicated to the child.
Methodologically, then, my essay seeks to recover psychobiographical inquiry from the scorn with which contemporary scholars tend to regard it. It aims to counter the crude ahistoricism by which conventional psychobiographers have tended to find the same story (classically, an oedipal one) in all their chosen subjects. The story I tell does indeed have its oedipal turns, but I assume throughout that the Oedipus complex becomes the dominant way of forming gender only under specific historical conditions - conditions that, as John Demos has shown, were precisely those prevailing in the United States at the turn of the twentieth century.9 A psychobiography of the kind I propose will thus of necessity be one alert to the ways in which its own procedures are implicated in the story it tells. Because the theory and techniques of psychoanalysis were developed by analyzing men and women of the modern West, psychoanalysis may be a theory of modern, Western subjectivity rather than of subjectivity as such, and its mode of inquiry may be best suited to analyzing the phenomena of capitalist modernity.
But this is emphatically not to claim that psychoanalysis is just a discourse that produces a deep subjective realm that it then appears to discover - and which it helps unwittingly to discipline. Such a view has become fashionable in recent efforts to historicize psychoanalysis.10 Those subscribing to it tend to see each intelligible instance of an era's speech (art, advertising, social theory, advice manuals) as equally performative and identically coercive; they equate the description of new phenomena with their ideologically motivated ''invention,'' deriding all of an era's self-understandings as pretenses of objectivity, forms of illegitimate transcendence that assume an outside to the history one inhabits. For me, this way of thinking is politically crippling and phenomenologically falsifying. One need not be forced to choose between seeing historical actors as completely immersed in discursive currents for which they serve as unwitting conduits or seeing them as transcending their historical embeddedness to reflect upon their moment from a chimerical outside. One can choose, instead, to believe that people inhabit their historical moment in ways that, depending on their particular histories and capacities, enable them to conceptualize and reflect critically upon some phenomena while fully immersing them in others. On this understanding, psychoanalysis is perhaps best understood as both a product of its inventor's era (with some of its attendant blindnesses) and a uniquely trenchant theory for understanding the forms of subjectivity - especially of gendered subjectivity - of that very age.
My analysis focuses on Fitzgerald partly because the feminist scholarship concerning him is still in an embryonic stage, which makes tracing his biography in gendered terms of considerable interest.11 Fitzgerald's case is also, however, compelling in its own right. One way his story helps enrich gender historians' accounts is in its revelation of an unusually stark version of the ambivalence toward normative manhood mentioned earlier. This ambivalence, which historians of masculinity rarely record, resulted in part from the new gender order's denigration of imaginative writing as feminine - a denigration that made it hard for male writers to subscribe unreservedly to that order. It bears noting at the outset, however, that even those who were not imaginative writers may well have been more ambivalent than historians' accounts suggest. We are fortunate in the case of most writers to have a richer record on which to draw. I begin with three historians of manhood: E. Anthony Rotundo, Michael Kimmel, and Gail Bederman. Rotundo and Kimmel weave broadly compatible narratives about the emergence of modern conceptions of manliness in the United States, narratives similar enough to allow me to describe them together. I will then proceed to complicate those histories by examining the distinctiveness of Bederman's account, before suggesting that her exploration, too, has limits that my reading of Fitzgerald seeks to redress.
For both Rotundo and Kimmel, masculinity was in crisis during the years 1890 to 1920, due to a breakdown in gendered roles that had been largely naturalized in the middle years of the nineteenth century. Manhood, these writers argue, was characterized in that earlier period by a dynamic interplay of qualities that would separately have been seen as a gendered binary. On one hand, to be a man was to create oneself in the capitalist marketplace - to achieve economic autonomy, self-sufficiency, and ownership of productive property. The qualities that enabled such success were an aggressive assertiveness and competitive vigor thought of as innately male. Successful manhood was imagined, in other words, as the realization of an instinct for domination that was rooted in the male body, the expression of which could alone enable the economic and psychic autonomy so central to American conceptions of success.
On the other hand, this aggressive competitiveness was viewed with suspicion for its threat to social cohesion. Were it given full rein beyond the manly sphere of work, the dominative will would make social order impossible to maintain. This instinct, therefore, had to be countered by a range of softer virtues - moral compassion, self-restraint, emotional sensitivity. These virtues were thought to be natural to women in the same way that competitive aggression was thought of as natural to men; the virtues could, in fact, be transmitted to men only by women in the domestic sphere. The division of spheres was in this sense a mechanism for socializing men by giving them a place to develop their compassionate interiors - to cultivate feelings and dispositions that could not be safely indulged at work but were indispensable to men's roles as citizens, fathers, and husbands. ''From this point of view, the social fabric was torn every day in the world and mended every night at home,'' writes Rotundo. ''Men's sphere depleted virtue, women's sphere renewed it'' ( AM, 23).
Around the turn of the century, however, a range of developments disturbed the relative stability of this division. These developments had primarily to do with transformations in the economic sphere, where the promise of autonomous self-making was increasingly thwarted by a monopoly capitalism that reduced men to dependents in a large bureaucratic structure. ''The number of salaried, non-propertied workers (virtually all white-collar) multiplied eight times between 1870 and 1910,'' writes Rotundo. ''Twenty percent of the total male work force was white-collar by 1910'' ( AM, 248). This new kind of employment ''offered neither autonomy nor ownership of productiveproperty. '' 12Theresultwasasenseofdependenceanddisempowerment that many men described as emasculation. Kimmel quotes one observer, for example, who claimed that to '''put a man upon wages is to put him in the position of a dependent' and that the longer he holds that position, the more his capacities atrophy and 'the less of a man . . . he becomes''' (MA, 84). Similarly, Anthony Ludovici ''observed the 'steady degeneration of men' brought on by the 'spectacle of men working at tasks which every woman knows she could easily undertake.'''13
According to Kimmel and Rotundo, American men responded to this disempowerment in a range of related ways. There was, to begin with, a discursive shift, a move away from the term manhood, defined in opposition to boyhood, and toward the term masculinity, defined in opposition to femininity (MA, 119 - 20; MC, 16 - 18). A man now was not one who had successfully grown up so much as one who was persuasively not a woman - a shift that bespoke a heightened need to police the borders between male and female identities. (This need was intensified by first-wave feminists' claims to the sexual and political rights of men as well as by the emergence of gay subcultures whose ''inverts'' raised the visible specter of a femininity lurking in all men.)14 More significant than this discursive transformation was a wholesale revaluation of the gendered division of spheres so central to nineteenth-century life.

</file>

<file= AmE06_G62>

The army convoy rattled through Al-Adhamiya like a carnival roller coaster, each turn as blind as the next. Not that the soldiers could see much anyway. Night had fallen on the old Baghdad quarter, a byzantine maze lit only by kerosene lamps flickering from rugged stone houses. We moved warily in the darkness, patrolling for insurgents in blind alleys custom-made for ambushes and narrow passages perfect for concealing roadside bombs. Only the piercing wail of a minaret's call to prayer broke the silence. It was anyone's bet who faced a more dire risk, the hunted in terrorist cells or the hunters in Humvees, along with whom I was riding under a half moon this December 10, 2003.

I was in Iraq to profile the American soldier as "Person of the Year" for Time magazine. It was a dream assignment, a chance to escape Washington and work in exotic environs on a big story. I had teamed up with another reporter, Romesh Ratnesar, and set out three weeks earlier to find a unit representative of the 120,000 U.S. troops then in Iraq. We had chosen a platoon of the First Armored Division that operated in a district of northwest Baghdad considered crucial to any hope of securing Iraq. Al-Adhamiya was nestled in a bend of the Tigris River, a historic crossroads for the Sunni Muslims who dominated political life in the days of Saddam Hussein. Sunnis actively fueled the anti-U.S. resistance after he fled: insurgents launched rockets from its alleyways, hid weapons in houses, and seeded the roads with booby-trapped bombs concealed in everything from trash to dead cats.

The platoon's commander had been killed by a roadside device in late October. I was reminded of his death every time I strapped on body armor - a sixteen-pound Kevlar vest with super-hard ceramic inserts - as I did this chilly night before climbing into the cab of one of three Humvees lined up for the patrol. The sergeant had a different plan. "No, you're going in the high-back," he said, directing me to an open-air vehicle usually used to transport equipment or troops. "Okay, let's go out there and be targets," he barked as our convoy pulled out for the 8 p.m. patrol.

The soldiers played a daring game of chicken, cruising the streets to draw fire and lure resisters. But tonight there seemed to be no takers. We emerged an hour later into Al-Adhamiya's main marketplace, a large treeless square that was host to what looked like a block party in full swing. Old men, rocking back and forth on tiny stools, shuffled dominoes. Boys volleyed soccer balls. Women veiled in black fed their children from stalls of roasted chickens and shashlik. No one seemed to notice the foreign invaders passing by. I was scribbling notes from the wooden bench of my Humvee, which was built like a large pickup truck. Across from me, Time photographer Jim Nachtwey was snapping pictures. Two young soldiers, Private Orion Jenks and Private First Class Jim Beverly, pointed M-16s out of the back of the vehicle and kibitzed about Baghdad's crazy drivers.

"I'd hate to have a nice car here," said Jenks, a lanky, twenty-two-year-old Californian who had joined the platoon a few days earlier.

"Yeah, someone would ding you, and you're in a country that has no gun control laws," Beverly joked back. At nineteen, he was even younger than Jenks, a baby-faced kid from Ohio who sketched fantasy figures in his spare time.

Sergeant Ron Buxton, a short and taut Missourian in his early thirties, was riding shotgun in the cab. He whipped around and yelled, "I don't care if you joke or smoke, but make sure you watch our back."

We turned onto Market Street a few minutes before nine and got stuck in traffic in front of the Abu Hanifa Mosque. Second in the line, our Humvee was idling near a clock tower of the sacred Sunni shrine that U.S. tanks had poked a hole in nine months earlier. Elaborate wooden scaffolding encircled the tower now. I wondered if the heart of this ancient capital would mend as easily.

At first I thought it was a rock, the specialty of street urchins - a harmless shot against an armored Humvee. But the clanking sound that interrupted my thoughts couldn't be ignored. Nothing in Baghdad was what it appeared to be. You survived by sensing danger in little unordinary things: overcoats on a hot day, shadows flitting across a rooftop. For me it was the sound of a projectile landing louder than any stone should have.

It bounced off the steel blast wall behind me. I gazed down, then to the right, and spotted an object on the wooden bench two feet away. The dark oval was as shiny and smooth as a tortoiseshell, roughly six inches long and four inches wide. None of my fellow passengers seemed to notice. Private Jenks, who sat closest to it, was facing the other way. I confronted the intruder alone, a journalist caught in a military moment. Something told me there was no time to consult the soldiers.

I rose halfway, leaned to the right, and cupped the object. I might as well have plucked volcanic lava from a crater. I could feel the flesh of my palm liquefying. Pain bolted up my arm like an electric current. In one fluid motion, I raised my right arm and started to throw the mass over the side of the vehicle, a short backhand toss. Then everything went dark.
The Humvee bed was cold and hard, an inhospitable place to awaken. I struggled to sit up and fell back. Over my left shoulder, I could see sparks and a bluish flame rising in smoke. I took stock in the flickering light. My right leg burned from knee to hip, as if pricked by hundreds of hot needles. Blood was oozing from it and forming a cold, wet layer over my pant leg; my right arm felt heavy and numb. Was I having a nightmare? The hollow, faraway sound of voices was dreamlike. So was the sepia hue of the winter sky. I shook my right arm, trying to wake it up. Still no response. I elevated it to see why.

My wrist looked like the neck of a decapitated chicken. The wound was jagged, the blood glistening in the light. My mouth was dry, my brow soaked in sweat; my heart beat quickly and weakly, little dings in my chest.

All sound and sight dimmed, as my thoughts turned inward. This is not how I pictured my life ending: futilely and unglamorously, on the frigid floor of a truck, thousands of miles away from anyone I loved.

Noises muffled just a few moments earlier suddenly became distinct: "Are there casualties?" I recognized Buxton's voice.

"Yes, we need to go now," Beverly answered tersely.

"How serious? Are you wounded?"

"We don't have time to answer these questions right now, Sergeant. We need to get back to the base. We need to go now."

"We're hit, we need help," screamed Nachtwey. "Get us out of here. Move it." I tried to join in but could barely muster a whisper. Jenks was no better. He was glassy-eyed and slumped in the corner, his automatic weapon dangling at his feet. He looked dead.

Buxton ordered the driver to move. He didn't see Specialist Billie Grimes, who had jumped out of the vehicle behind us and was sprinting toward us in a hail of enemy fire. "Stop. Stop," she yelled. We did so long enough for the slight, twenty-six-year-old medic from rural Indiana to leap in. She landed on a floor that was so slick from blood she slid over me, barely able to stay on her feet. The driver gunned it again, all but pulling her legs out from under her. She straddled my hips to maintain her balance and quickly took inventory. Jenks was stunned, but breathing. Beverly, bleeding from his knees and mouth, was strong enough to hold up his weapon and guard the rear. Nachtwey was wounded in his knees and abdomen. Instinctively, he reached for his camera to document the scene. He leaned forward and focused the camera on me. The flash startled Grimes.

"Put down the camera, Jim," she yelled and flipped him a roll of gauze battle dressing to press on his wounds. Nachtwey ignored her and shakily snapped another frame. Then he passed out, camera in hand.

I became the priority the moment Grimes saw my arm: protruding, ivory-white wristbones in a bed of severed tendons and blood vessels. Moving quickly, she tossed aside her medic bag and pulled an elastic cord from her left belt loop. The band was usually used to pop up veins before drawing blood. Now Grimes contained my blood with it, an impromptu tourniquet she wound tightly around my stump. For good measure, she ripped open a roll of gauze with her teeth and wrapped it around the cord. It stanched the flow, freeing Grimes to take command of what was now essentially an emergency room on wheels.

Her voice carried over the open speaker of the cab's field radio as she shouted instructions to Buxton through an open panel separating the cab from cargo section. "Take the fastest route you can get to. I have four people injured. One amputation . . ."

Minutes later, the vehicle crashed through concertina wire blocking the back gate of the base, a shelled-out Saddam fleshpot renamed Gunner Palace after the artillery brigade occupied it. We hurtled toward the aid station so fast I thought we'd knock it down. The driver screeched to a halt a yard from the door. "Bring the litters, bring the litters," ordered Grimes. Four medics and a physician's assistant deposited Nachtwey and me on stretchers and brought us into an L-shaped clinic big enough for two gurneys. The place was roiling, medics scurrying in all directions. Nachtwey was begging for more painkillers. I had lost so much blood it took three soldiers to locate a vein. Within seconds, the morphine's warming, relaxing effect set in. I needed it for what came next: a wooden stick was tied between two pieces of cloth wrapped around my right arm, then turned like a tire wrench. Medics twisted the tourniquet tighter and tighter on my numbed limb, as if I had no bones left to worry about.

Grimes was so thoroughly soaked in my blood that the other medics assumed she'd been wounded. Throwing off her body armor, she jumped into the fray, moving as nimbly as a point guard - prospecting for a vein here, securing the tourniquet there. I was leaking blood, and no one could determine the source. Grimes snipped off my clothes and found it. "Why did you have to wear so much? It's not that cold out," she complained good-naturedly. The back of my upper-right thigh had been peppered by shrapnel, dozens of tiny metal shards. Medics swaddled it in a broad abdominal dressing.

I was naked and cold in the unheated aid station. Everything was playing in slow motion and elongated sound. The medics strapped me in the stretcher and drove me to the base's helipad. The only protection I had against the freezing night was a "shock blanket," a piece of aluminum foil that lined the gurney and folded over my feet. Grimes tried to tuck in the flimsy cover, but it kept blowing off and finally flew away in the gale of the Black Hawk's landing. I was loaded into the chopper, its door wide open and propellers slicing the air. Shivering uncontrollably, my teeth slammed like pistons; every muscle seemed to have gone into spasm. It occurred to me that I might be going into shock.

Loading the other three casualties seemed to take forever. As I lay there, I realized I was missing something: the makeshift photo album I always carried in my vest pocket.

</file>

<file= AmE06_G63>

Generally speaking, there is little evidence in the written source texts, with some exceptions, such as Snow White, Sleeping Beauty, and The Little Mermaid, of White privileging and/or of a binary color symbolism that associates white with goodness and black with evil. Even in texts that evidence some of this color symbolism, the relative symbolism may be, to some extent at least, a function of the translation. For example, in Snow White (Brothers Grimm, 1945), translated by Lucas, Crane, and Edwards, the poisonous apple is described as "beautiful to look upon, being white with red cheeks, so that anyone who should see it must long for it" (p. 173). In another version (Grimm's Fairy Tales, 1949) based on a translation by Taylor, the apple is described as simply "so very nice" (p. 143). Snow White, of course, is consistently described as having "skin as white as snow, lips as red as blood, and hair as black as ebony" (Grimm Brothers, 1945, 1949, 1963). Other evidence of color symbolism in this tale includes descriptions of the furnishings of the seven dwarfs: their little table was covered with a "white cloth" (Household Stories, p. 215) and their beds covered with "clean white quilts"(HouseholdStories, p. 215). The whiteness of Snow White's skin, as well as the "whiteness" attributed to the seven dwarfs' furnishings, suggests an equation of "white" with goodness. On the other hand, there is no corresponding evidence that equates black with evil. One of the core qualities possessed by Snow White is her beauty. Her "white" skin, therefore, her "red" lips, as well as her "black" hair are all symbolic markers of beauty.
In Perrault's The Sleeping Beauty in the Woods, translated by Johnson(2000c), only once is
whiteness evidenced in the text: after Sleeping Beauty is in her state of rest, her skin is referred to
as [still] "white and beautiful"(p. 13). Cinderella, in this same collection, shows no explicit evidence of a binary color symbolism. This is also true of Beauty and the Beast, included in the same collection but based on Mme. Leprince de Beaumont's text. It is, however, Woodard's adaptation of Hans Christian Anderson's (1981) The Little Mermaid that evidences the greatest degree of binary color symbolism. This adaptation clearly privileges whiteness and, in particular, White human beings. The nameless Little Mermaid is described as having "beautiful white arms"(p. 35), "eyes as blue as the deepest sea," (p. 6); and, after she is transformed into a human, she is described as possessing "the prettiest little white legs a girl could wish for"(p. 9). Throughout the text, white is used to symbolize beauty and goodness: the Little Mermaid loved the statue of the handsome boy which is "carved out of clear white stone"(p. 20); and when she danced, she "lifted her beautiful white arms"(p. 35). This tale, however, also privileges White humans, because the Little Mermaid is willing to give up everything to obtain "an immortal soul" (p. 37) that only humans possess and the only humans in this text are White:" I would gladly give all the hundreds of years I have to live if I could only be a human being for one day and afterwards have a share in the heavenly kingdom (p. 24)." On the other hand, black in this text is equated with evil or danger: a little "black dog" (p. 12) barks ferociously at one of the Mermaid's sisters; and the evil Sea Witch has "black blood" (p. 32) in her breast.
Aladdin and the Wonderful Lamp (Lang, 1951) diverges from the other tales in relation to the documented provenance. This group of tales is reliably considered not to have originated in the Western world. Rather, they are thought to have been brought to the Western world in the eighteenth century and were translated from Arabic into French by Antoine Galland. The version of this tale examined in this study is an English translation edition by Lang (1951), specifically adapted for children. The princess of this tale is described with only one reference to her physical appearance: "she [was] so beautiful that Aladdin fell in love with her at first sight" (p. 206). The tale takes place primarily in China with a short segment in Africa. None of the major characters is described in relation to skin color. There is, however, one significant reference to color in the text: the sultan demands that Aladdin send him, "forty basins of gold brimful of jewels, carried by forty Black slaves, led by as many White ones" (p. 210). It is significant that although this reference depicts both Blacks and Whites as slaves, it clearly places White slaves in a position of relatively higher status.
Many of the pictorial texts that accompany these written fairytale texts use black and white line drawings, and where color illustrations are used, the characters are typically illustrated as White. This fact, however, should not be read as sinister, since these tales, with the exception of Aladdin, are all in fact European fairy tales and it is logical that European characters should be represented graphically as White.
Color symbolism in the Disney versions
The Disney film versions of these same texts reveal indisputable evidence of White privileging and a binary color symbolism that associates white with goodness and black with evil. The reign
of the Disney fairy tale princess began with the production of Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs in 1937, and since then Disney productions have become the dominant source of children's
intertextual knowledge of fairy tales, particularly in relation to visual and imaginary images. However, Disney's productions of the fairy tales not only deviate a great deal from the source texts in relation to plot and characterization, they also manifest rampant use of the symbolism of
white for goodness and black for evil or danger. The princesses (and princes) are overwhelmingly White, several with either blonde hair or blue eyes when the hair is not blonde. The exceptions are Snow White, "whose hair had to be black as ebony," and Jasmine from Aladdin (Disney Films, 1992), who is tan- or olive-skinned with voluminous black hair. Moreover, just as the literary fairy tale texts of the 18th century excluded "common people" (Zipes, 1993, p. 13), so too, the Disneyfied versions, spanning a period of more than seven decades since the appearance of Snow White of these same texts, exaggerate the whiteness of the both primary and secondary characters,
and thus subtly promote an ideology of White supremacy. The black and white color symbolism in these Disney film versions is pervasive and powerful. For example, Snow White(Disney, 1937) features a wicked queen dressed in black who lives in a black castle that has black rats, a dangerous black forest containing blackbats, and black owls. Moreover, the wicked Queen has a black crow-like bird perched on a human skull. In the end, the film implies that the wicked queen is devoured (off screen) by black vultures. Even the poisonous apple turns black to symbolize what lies within before turning red again. On the other hand, Snow White is surrounded by white birds; the Prince appears in a white horse; Snow White is laid to rest (when presumed dead) on white flowers holding a bouquet of white flowers before the Prince returns to rescue her and they ride off on his white horse toward the his white castle. It is interesting to note that Snow White's complexion in the film is darker than that of the wicked stepmother. It is clear, therefore, that whiteness is not simply a color but a symbolic marker of goodness.
In Disney's Cinderella(1950), the color symbolism operates in both explicit and implicit or
Subtle ways. The "good" Cinderella is blonde and blue-eyed. Her "bad" stepsisters and mother are
visibly darker in complexion than Cinderella who is visibly White. The prince lives in a white
castle that has white birds at the window. His father has white hair, which signals not only age, but
a child-like innocence and goodness as well. Cinderella's fairy godmother also has white hair. The
godmother turns brown, low-status, mice into white human beings and animals: white horses,
white coachman, and white doorman. Moreover, she transforms a pumpkin into a white coach.
The prince, although black-haired, which is a marker of virility, is clad in a white jacket. His
father dreams of grandchildren, represented specifically as a blonde-haired boy and girl even though his son is black-haired. The coding of black and dark hues is subtle in this film. The
wicked stepmother's cherished pet is a black cat named "Lucifer." Interestingly, although Cinderella acts as a benevolent mistress to all the other creatures in
the film, she can find no good characteristics in Lucifer, and even complains: "There must be something good about him." The brown mice, in their behavior and demeanor, are reminiscent of the "good plantation slaves" featured in some of Hollywood's most racist films. They are taken care of by the good Cinderella (presumably they cannot take care of themselves), and grateful to be of service, and are willingly being transformed into something other than themselves for her benefit.
Disney's Sleeping Beauty (1959), or Princess Aurora, opens with a deviation from the stereotypical symbolism of black as evil. In an early scene, knights are dressed in black on white horses (with one exception of a black knight on a black horse). The faces of the knights are never revealed. In this case, black suggests the anonymity and mystery that surround the knights, while the white horses indicate the goodness of their charge. Sleeping Beauty's father also has black hair, which signals qualities of virility, seriousness, and steadfastness that most often are not found in characters that have white hair. King Stephan, however, is married to a blonde, which represents the highest standard of beauty and grace. Sleeping Beauty is also blonde and blue-eyed. White birds appear on-screen and fly upwards as one of the fairy godmothers, Fauna, bestows the gift of song on her at the celebration of her birth. The prince is tawny-haired and lives in a castle around which white birds are flying. The wicked stepmother, Maleficent, bears the title of "Mistress of all evil." She is dressed in black and has a black crow-like bird as a companion. She is also accompanied by dark hunch-backed creatures and dark warthogs that do her evil bidding.
In this film, black and white are also coded with religious notions of good and evil. The prince is armed by the good fairies with "weapons of righteousness" - virtue and truth - to triumph over evil, "all the powers of hell" claimed by Maleficent. The good fairies empower Prince Phillip's sword so that "evil may die and good endure." The prince carries a shield with a cross, reminiscent of the symbol of crusaders. In the end, evil, in the person of Maleficent, is liquefied into a black puddle.
In Disney's Beauty and the Beast (1991) the overwhelmingly White world of fairytales is magnified and exaggerated by the inclusion of a cast of characters not present in the source text. Early in the film we learn that the Beast, once a prince, has been punished for his selfishness, because he offended a blonde enchantress who was at the time disguised as an old woman. For this perceived offense, she turned him into a big brown beast. Beauty, a tawny-haired, devoted daughter, is coveted by the only black-haired, yet white male in the film. It is this male, Gaston, who instigates and leads (riding a black horse) a mob to storm the castle presumably to kill the big brown beast who dared to have won the affections of the woman he (Gaston) wanted. The mob scene evokes memories of lynch mobs of the South in the United States.
In other instances in the film, black is used to imply danger and evil: when Belle's father is lost in the woods, a black creature flashes across the screen just before a tree explodes with black bats; black dragon-like statues are shown inside and outside the Beast's castle.

</file>

<file= AmE06_G64>

The first framing joke is Ishmael's jaunty insistency, based on the authority of one Charley Coffin, that the whale is not a mammal but a fish. Although the whale manifests all of the features of a mammal, including a warm heart, lungs, eyelids, ears, and above all "penem intrantem feminam mammis lactantem" (Moby-Dick, p. 136), these facts have nothing over Charley's incredulity: he knows a fish when he sees one. His assertion that Linnaean anatomy is "humbug" broadly hints that Yankee skepticism is only the latest form of American gullibility. Of course, the clinching mammalian fact that no Yankee could call humbug is concealed in Latin mumbo jumbo, which Melville snatched from his copy of The Penny Cyclopedia and which means that the fishy whale has a "penis that enters the female, who gives milk from teats." These details are hidden in plain sight, in foreign words that call attention to themselves as words. Moreover, as science and common sense seem simultaneously to deconstruct, the difference between one natural species and another is reduced to matters of sexual function. The whale is not so much mammal or fish; it is a sexual being.
Given the social dynamics of this wordy joke, Melville could be certain that, despite Ishmael's comic adoption of Charley's benighted skepticism, his educated reader would be laughing with Ishmael and at Charley. Ishmael has other fish to fry. In his second joke, Linnaeus is discarded for bibliography - that is, natural morphology cannot account for the whale, but book making can - and yet his bibliographical approach also falls apart. As with his recourse to Charley's facile authority, Ishmael willfully pursues appearance rather than reality. He will classify whales by their "externals" (their looks, size, and weight) rather than by their inner anatomical structure. And he will rank the different whales in terms of the bibliographer's system of identifying books by their size. He is inspired to do this by a pun: whales are big; they have volume; books come in volumes. Whales, then, are books. And books come in sizes based on the number of times a full sheet of paper is folded in order to create pages: one fold yields the largest book, the Folio; two folds, the Quarto; three, the Octavo; other folds, the Duodecimo.
Ishmael's bookish system is more enticing for the educated reader: the fish joke merely derides the working class; the book joke promises to elaborate a new culture, never mind how facetious. For what we know of Ishmael - he is moody, exuberant, but not yet the great essayer of whales that he will become in his later cetological chapters - this new joke seems counterintuitive: Ishmael is no "skimmer of pages," but instead is someone drawn to depths and connections, not superficial differentiation. And despite the good pun, the comic reduction of whale to book seems to diminish the mammalian link to humankind; its merely volumetric standard robs the whale of its massy substantiality. Moreover, we know the limits of punning. The initial wit is gratifying but quickly depleted by repeated extensions of the conceit. By the time Ishmael reaches "Duodecimo," he is himself wearied of the punning and tosses all remaining whales into a cetological "Miscellaneous" pile, calling them "altogether obsolete" (Moby-Dick, p. 145). We, too, are bewildered by the process, and readers invariably complain that "Cetology" is the point at which Moby-Dick becomes work not pleasure. But this strategy of exhaustion, this affliction of the Montypythonic running of an absurdity into the ground, seems to be the planned diversion of a con artist whose design is to take us out of ourselves and into a fake system that must fail and thus leave us floating, without any generic nomenclature, in the unclassifiable realm of Being. Where do these whales fit; what are these strange things, these others?
In romancing his whale, Melville makes the most familiar aspects of the unfamiliar beast far more strange than they need to be, and, as with Montaigne, who always begins in left field, Melville is essaying toward an unexpected leap to an "unaccustomed viewpoint." Eventually, this meretricious "otherness" foisted upon whales becomes the route by which we return to a recognition of their sameness to us. The unexpected ruse in Ishmael's bibliographical con game is that the whale is we.
Our identification with the whale is through our shared (in this instance male) sexuality. But the revelation comes only as the bibliographical nomenclature deconstructs. How the absurd systemization deconstructs is itself absurd. In a footnote (Moby-Dick, p. 141), Ishmael explains that he omits the Quarto as a class of whales because, although it is smaller than the Folio and bigger than the Octavo, it does not exhibit the same proportions as those two. (Quartos are squarish; the others rectangular.) Assuming that all whales are similarly shaped, Ishmael effectively makes the Quarto "obsolete." But what Ishmael knows (because subsequent cetological chapters tell us so) is that whales do have different shapes, and that the square-nosed Sperm whale differs radically from all other shovel-nosed whales. Moreover, the Sperm whale is rated as the largest of whales, the first among Folios, when, in fact, it is a middling-sized whale: once again a Quarto if ever a Quarto whale there be.
Ishmael's punning classification system is a willful deformation of natural facts that we know he knows. The satire on scientific systemization seems to be turning on Ishmael, deflating the brio of his daring snub of science, making him the butt of his own joke, the fool of his own con. He exits the chapter in exhaustion, with a grandiose excuse: his system is incomplete like the unfinished Cologne Cathedral; but this incompletion, he insists, is the hallmark of greatness, for such "erections" like all "grand ones, true ones, ever leave the copestone to posterity" (Moby-Dick, p. 145). In fact, Ishmael's argument for the validity of incompletion, while a fundamental in his notion of symbolism that will come crashing down in chapter 42, "The Whiteness of the Whale," is here only a diversion from a sexual joke already completed in his complete-enough bibliographical system. It is an experiment in the rearrangement of natural things for the purpose of transforming whales into human beings. Taken as a thing completed, Ishmael's bibliographical cetology employs an alpha and omega logic wherein the last creatures classified embody the first. In our end is our beginning. Tying these extremes together is a jokey sexuality that reinforces the creative activity found in both. Casting aside the Quarto classification, Ishmael purposefully and erroneously makes his Sperm whale into a Folio whale, and, in fact, the largest within that preeminent classification. (In fact, the Blue whale, called "obsolete," is the largest.) The first among the last (Duodecimo) classification is the diminutive Huzza Porpoise. In describing the Sperm whale, Ishmael focuses exclusively upon the etymology of its odd name: sperm. Ancients believed the rich oil (spermaceti) bailed out of the whale's head was, in fact, the male's "quickening humor" (Moby-Dick, p. 138), the seminal fluid of creation. In Ishmael's book system, the Sperm whale is removed from its proper Linnaean middle class to a new vaulted position at the top of the order of being because its name symbolizes the "humor" that initiates gestation or creation itself. At the end of Ishmael's oddly ordered cetology is the Sperm whale's "miniature," the Huzza Porpoise - not really a whale, and not the real name for the common porpoise, but a fanciful rendering of that "hilarious" animal suited to Melville's symbolizing, a sportive creature whose "godly gamesomeness" makes it the more accessible, genially comic version of the more sublimely creative Sperm whale (Moby-Dick, pp. 134 - 44). Although diminished in size, this jolly little phallus transforms a physical essence (sperm) into something metaphysical: a divinely ejaculative, enthused playfulness that is the tried-out essence of creativity itself. By illogically prioritizing the mythic Sperm whale above larger whales, and by linking it to a smaller comic double (an image of the writer), Ishmael pushes language beyond scientific analysis into symbolic argumentation. He implicitly redefines "volume" to mean not merely "space" or "book" but rather "the capacity to create." In Ishmael's cetological essayings, the whale from beginning to end is a symbol of creativity: the impregnation of the imagination and the sire of gamesome thought.
Ishmael uses tall-tale, con-game joking and diversions to transform scientific fact into symbol. In the process, he essays familiar forms into something strange, doubled, sexual, and creative, and yet despite the genial hoaxing (or perhaps because of it), he manages to achieve a sincere voice. His facetious incompletion is merely the consequence of a kind of linguistic jury-rigging that puts his essaying on a settled course, one that brings us to a circle of identity that embodies being itself: whale word sex self. The method is crucial to his romancing. By denying the whale its mammalian status, Ishmael makes it into an alien "fish," and yet this absurdity only calls attention to how human it really is, especially in sexual terms: it breeds and nurses like male and female homo sapiens. What ties us to this "other" consciousness is our sexuality, our mutual creative urge. Through a comic sexualizing of the whale, Ishmael establishes a voice that compresses fact into symbol, and all creation into the self.
Melville's essaying is most evident when we compare Ishmael's whimsically subversive leaps to his more devastating plunge in "Cetology's" tragic double, "The Whiteness of the Whale," in which Nature becomes "a dumb blankness, full of meaning" and "a colorless, all-color of atheism" (Moby-Dick, p. 195). Here, empirical fact becomes symbol, but the symbol crushes in upon itself, signaling the deconstructive nature of language. Ishmael's extension of creativity into nihilism recalls the failure of Victor Frankenstein's own creativity, which through his monster's ungovernable despair yields an ominous self-revelation: "I, too, can create desolation" (Frankenstein, p. 143). Like Victor, Ishmael seeks the causes of things, in particular the cause of fear in whiteness; he breaks through the mask of that symbol to go past solid fact into the speculative realm of causation. Unlike Ahab, however, who presupposes the existence of some "principal" behind the mask, Ishmael stumbles upon an appalling vacuity. In essaying a symbol, a process so playful and rejuvenative in "Cetology," he discovers a blinding chaos in "Whiteness" that Shelley's monster never articulates. And indeed, he essays over the verge. But this is only one turn in Ishmael's "random way," a negative turn that will initiate positive cetological counterturns ("The Fountain" and "The Blanket") even as it anticipates further fiery negations of whaling ("The Grand Armada" and "The Try-Works"). Just as Ishmael goes deeper than Victor or Ahab, he also rises higher, surviving his vertiginous romancing through a comic containment of the sublime. In the end, Ishmael follows both the Montaignean and Hawthornean models: he careers toward absurdity, but finally keeps to the bank. More like the silence at the end of Thorpe's "Big Bear" than the "talk" of Shelley's histrionic monster, Ishmael's shifting versions of self add up to a tense repose of creation and doubt. Melville's essaying of symbol is his deepest extension of his essaying of Gothic and tall-tale structure.
Ishmael is the culmination of Melville's earlier attempts (from Typee to White-Jacket) to project a first-person voice of genial desperation. What is curious is that once Melville achieved this voice, he set it aside. Nowhere in the subsequent fictions -  not even in the first-person tales - do we find a full return to this speaker. In Moby-Dick, Melville essays Ishmael; he tries him out, and, in doing so, moves on. This is not to suggest that Melville lost the Ishmaelean voice that he had so vigorously worked for, only that it was no longer a version of himself that he found useful. In this phase of romancing, he had discovered "a personality," "in the midst of the personified impersonal" of Being (Moby-Dick, p. 507); he had "landed in Africa."

</file>

<file= AmE06_G65>

Her enjoyment of the two beers that she orders is nearly overwhelmed by her compulsive calculations of how much the drinks are cutting into her tight budget. The scene unfolds as if purposefully to reiterate the previously established connections between class, sexuality, race, and gender, which are marked here again by the trope of live burial. Boots appears behind her - initially attracted by the mournful tone in her voice when she sings along with the juke-box, then by her beauty - and offers to pay for her drinks. She fights an internal battle before replying. Lutie is certain that if she makes it clear up front "that there wasn't any inducement he could offer that would make her sleep with him," he will "disappear" (149). But the thought of going back to do her laundry in "the three rooms with the silence and the walls pressing in" is more than she can bear (150). She allows him to pick up her check, thinking that "the walls had beaten her or she had beaten the walls. Whichever way she cared to look at it" (150). That is to say, first, that the literal walls of her apartment, oppressive and dull, have forced her into an encounter with a man that is sure to end in disappointment (when he "disappear[s]"). But we are also to understand this seemingly self-contradictory statement to suggest that Lutie, by giving him an opening to pursue her, has managed to escape halfway the figurative walls entombing her sexuality, to feed her desire just enough to keep it alive a while longer. This ambivalent success becomes more promising in her eyes, however, when Boots suggests that Lutie could make a good living singing and invites her to sing with his band the following night.
Lutie is aware that Boots is tempting her with this opportunity for a chance to seduce her and that she will have to work hard to get what she wants from him - a steady gig as his band's vocalist - without giving him what he wants from her. But her commitment to domestic values is unwavering; indeed, in keeping with the philosophy of environmental determinism that underwrites the novel, her commitment gets stronger the longer she lives on "the street." The less she can afford (economically) to conform her lodgings and her life with Bub to the ideals for "home" and "family," the less she can afford (ideologically) to relinquish the performance of asexual ("true") womanhood. She should not need a healthy bank account to maintain her sexual integrity, she believes, regardless of the racial presumptions working against her. But, in fact, Petry's narrative makes a very explicit connection between class (and racial) identity and sexuality. The novel repeatedly depicts attacks, physical and otherwise, on Lutie's determined asexuality, offenses and indignities that the narrator assures us Lutie would not have had to suffer with such frequency had she not been a poor, African American woman. Lindon Barrett's analysis of the novel deconstructs the legal and economic discourses that inscribe "the bodies of African American women" with "the sign 'whore' " (122). Barrett incisively explores the way that the legal status of "slave" and the economic status of "prostitute" cooperate on the space of the black female body so as to signify a woman who both chooses to make herself sexually available and has no right to choose not to (121-22). Petry represents this discursive situation, according to Barrett, by investing most of the novel's characters with "the notion that access to Lutie's genitalia is almost as uncomplicated a matter as the purchasing of groceries or a newspaper or any other number of routine transactions" (122).
Thus, Lutie suffers increasingly from gothic homelessness while she remains on "the street": whereas the heteronormative "home" is rhetorically impermeable to any threat to a "lady's virtue," Lutie's accommodations seem day by day to invite more and greater sexual threats and attacks. She is solicited at the doorstep by Mrs. Hedges, her downstairs neighbor, on behalf of "a nice white gentleman" (84). This massive, inscrutable, blank-eyed woman, who unnerves Lutie terribly, is used to taking advantage of the financial worries that plague the numerous separated, single mothers on the street, by recruiting them for the brothel she runs in her first-floor apartment. The building "super," Jones, violates Lutie figuratively: he befriends Bub to gain access to her bedroom when she is not at home and takes the opportunity to fetishize her clothes, making "great smudges of dirt and tight, small wrinkles" with his hungry hands on her white blouse (208-09). Later he attacks her physically, attempting to drag her down to the basement and rape her. Ironically, it is the powerful Mrs. Hedges who saves Lutie from this violation - her motivation being that Lutie has been claimed by the "nice white gentleman" whom Mrs. Hedges represents and is therefore off-limits to Jones. All of these episodes take place in or on the threshold of Lutie's dwelling, emphasizing the extent of her gothic homelessness: she has no "proper home," no domestic "safe haven" that is invulnerable to those who do not belong to her "family." Or rather, as it cannot rightly be said that either Jones or Mrs. Hedges does not belong in the building - they live there, too - Lutie's terror may just as accurately be deemed a response to becoming a part of a frightening "family," a "home"-less family very different from the kind she wants. Petry metaphorically constructs both the super and the brothel owner as gothic figures: Jones as a vampire or devil and Mrs. Hedges as an other-worldly "monstrosity" (241). In the case of the former, a subplot of the novel describes the disintegration of the threadbare relationship between Jones and Min, a woman who moves in with him to escape the burden of paying rent. A "root doctor" counsels the worried Min to hang a cross on the wall above their bed. Jones's instinctive and inexplicable fear of this cross prevents the generally abusive man from laying a hand on her - and marks him figuratively as a vampire (358-59). Mrs. Hedges, on the other hand, is described as "a creature that had strayed from some other planet" (237). Her large size, combined with the "mass of ... terrible scars" that have covered her body since she barely escaped a burning building, evoke"sheer horror ...  - undisguised, uncontrollable" in those who see her (247). I want to highlight the connection between these two gothic figures. Both vampires and monsters fall into the category referred to in the gothic tradition as the "living dead." Vampires have given up their mortal lives in exchange for a parasitic immortality siphoned nightly from the veins of the living; monsters symbolize not only inhuman, but also "unnatural" life, in the tradition of Frankenstein's creature (whose body was cobbled together and reanimated through an ungodly use of scientific knowledge). Petry uses these figures of living death to dramatize metaphorically the process by which Lutie, as a result of her live burial in the same "tomb" with such characters, is gradually (or suddenly and violently, one might argue) transformed into a member of this ghastly gothic "family." The street itself is figured as actively vampiric: "Lutie thought. No one could live on a street like this and stay decent. It would get them sooner or later, for it sucked the humanity out of people - slowly, surely, inevitably" (229; italics added). Petry's gothic double here voices the fear that the novelist bravely explores in her fiction: the terrifying possibility, even probability, that Petry could far too easily be Lutie, that she is protected from suffering Lutie's fate by not much more than the family, husband, and saleable professional skills that provide or enable her to procure an address far (or far enough) from the hell of 116* Street.
With these lines, Petry inscribes explicitly in her novel the conclusion that she had come to after a few years of living and working in Harlem: that, " 'simply and easily[,] the environment can change the course of a person's life' " (Petry, "Talks" 71). Petry's conclusion conflicts fundamentally with the philosophy of self-determination in which her parents had raised her to believe. As I noted earlier, Petry was taught as a child to take Benjamin Franklin's recipe for success for her own. When we recognize Lutie as Petry's doppelganger, we are not taken aback - as some critics have been - to find that Lutie has also absorbed "Franklin's optimistic guidelines for achievement" into her understanding of self and world (Holladay 7). Lutie is frequently taken to task for this characteristic that she shares with Petry - for seeing Franklin as a feasible model for her upward mobility. Nellie McKay is typical of many scholars of the novel when she criticizes Lutie for having "so assimilated and accepted the [Puritan] values [of hard work, thrift, and morality] her grandmother touted that they became thought barriers that prevented her from realizing the true nature of her situation as a black woman in a white patriarchal society" (133).^^ Keith Clark's reading goes even further, asserting that Lutie's "obtuseness," "gullibility," and "naivete" are so incredible (as characteristics of an African American woman in 194O's Harlem) that she should be understood as an " 'anti-heroine' " and the novel as a satire (503). By contrast, I submit that Petry is far from ridiculing her doppelganger; rather, the author's gesture requires her readers to recognize that the existence of a woman like Lutie is entirely possible.
Petry herself, at Lutie's age, was living proof that a young woman could hold and live by the values that domestic ideology prescribes and that underwrite the American Dream, even while being well aware of the existence and power of oppressive forces like racism, classism, and sexism. Petry's family folklore included a profusion of references to the evils of racism and other such obstacles. Her maternal grandfather had been a fugitive slave, whose "nursery song" offered some grim advice: "Run, little baby, run / or patterrollers / goin' come, / run, little baby, run" (Petry, "Ann Petry" 255). Her aunt, Anna Louise James, had been the only woman in her class in the Brooklyn College of Pharmacy and was refused membership in the Connecticut Pharmaceutical Association specifically on the grounds of her sex ("Aim Petry" 261). But exceptionalism is a seductive doctrine, and Petry's family, even while sharing their experiences of oppression with her, did everything in their power to shelter her from the direct effects of racism and to encourage her to believe that her own discipline, thrift, and effort - essential qualities of the ideal domestic woman -  were the key factors in her ability to achieve her goals. To see Lutie's experience as not the same as Petry's, but sufficiently similar to produce in her a like mindset, we must read closely and, as much as possible, without the obfuscating lens of stereotypes of the ghetto. Though the first seven years of Lutie's life are barely hinted at, we learn, importantly, that her home life was more domestic in this period before her mother's death than afterwards. Only subsequently did her father begin bootlegging in preference to the ongoing, futile search for steady employment (80). But his defection was balanced by her grandmother's vocal disapproval, and the remainder of Lutie's childhood was spent in the domestic security that her Granny's constant, soothing presence provided (404). Upon Granny's recommendation, as a means of ensuring that Lutie remained protected from the sexual advances of dubious men, she was married at 17 years old, as soon as she was out of high school (76). Petry constructs Lutie's past with light but careful strokes that make her quite a plausible character. And perhaps more important for Petry than whether a woman like Lutie was possible in 1940's Harlem was the question of whether it was possible for such a woman, upon reaching young adulthood in that grim arena, to come to any other end than the violent, tragic fate that her heroine meets in The Street.

</file>

<file= AmE06_G66>

On 21 November 1678, Joseph Rowlandson Preached a fast-day sermon in Weathersfield, Connecticut, just two days before his death. Entitled The Possibility of God's Forsaking a People, it reached memorial publication in 1682, as separate title and as both appendix and frame to the famous captivity narrative of his wife, Mary Rowlandson. To berate an audience in perceived decline, the minister quoted a textual crux from Jeremiah. Chapter 2, verse 31 - "And you, O Generation, behold the word of the lord!" (Metzger and Murphy) - has mystified biblical editors, since the phrasing is guesswork from a vague Hebrew original. This doubt was Rowlandson's opportunity: "Oh Generation of what? of what you will, God leaves a space that you may write, what you please, generation of Vipers, or Monsters, or any thing rather then Generation of Gods people. See ye the word of the Lord behold your face in that Glass" (13 -  14). While the passage is familiar as jeremiad, its strategy raises key questions for study of the material text in relation to the disciplines of literary criticism and book history. A literary critic, for instance, would note that Rowlandson does not practice the antiaesthetic of transparent communication so often associated with New England writing. Rather, Rowlandson invites manifold responses through the will and pleasure of the reader. He offers figurative and open-ended variants ("Vipers, or Monsters . . ."), hemming in those responses with a punitive reproach that is nevertheless indefinite (". . . or any thing rather then Generation of Gods people"). Additionally, the passage layers voices, as the citation orchestrates God's speech to the Israelites, Jeremiah's prophecy to the Judaeans, and Rowlandson's sermon to his congregants. While the message is admonitory, its extended figuration, deliberate ambiguity, and polyvocality partake in the kind of multiple meaning that is the resource of art writing, traditionally conceived.
The passage compels special attention, however, for its allusion to the modes of textual transmission animating this literary method. The instability of a crux inspires Rowlandson, but instead of resolving it, the preacher avows the bibliographic uncertainty of imprecise or conflicting sources. Though seemingly fixed in print, the passage refers to the oral performances and scribal mediations that also structured literacy protocols in the early modern period. With the apostrophic address, the curt monosyllables dominating the first four clauses, and the parallelism of the imperatives ("See," "behold") in the final sentence, the passage sounds an acoustic impatience. It also prompts note-taking in response to sacred text - a custom encouraged in worship practices of the more zealous Reformation pietists. The intertext of the auditor notebook returns us to the cross-referencing habits of Rowlandson himself, who, to give point to the scriptural fragment from Jeremiah 2.31, indexes and collates material through biblical translations, commentaries, and marginalia. For Rowlandson and his devotional audience, textuality is a nonlinear, performative sensorium, a richly imagined environment where words exist in multiple media, where books are navigated by hand and eye, and where information is gathered and meaning creatively regenerated.
While helping us rethink the plain style, Rowlandson's clever reprimand is nevertheless presented in a jeremiad and attached to a captivity narrative and thus seems to sit squarely in the tradition of colonial American literary genres. But in fact it alludes to modes of textuality that complicate categories of literary history not only for seventeenth-century New England but for early modern England as well. For early New England, attention to genres such as the jeremiad and to single authors such as Anne Bradstreet and Edward Taylor has obscured the dominant literary culture of the seventeenth century. Research on the book trades and probate has recovered a set of devotional works - manuals of piety, guides to conversion, sermon series, and psalmbooks - that were, along with scripture, the popular literature of early New England. Inexpensively formatted, this prescriptive literature makes up the era's steady sellers, titles ordered and reordered from London by Boston booksellers and reprinted at the local presses, "steady" in the sense of ensuring dependable sales that could cover centuries, as David D. Hall notes ("Uses" 61 - 62, Worlds 48 - 49). Written by moderate-to-radical Reformers and later by Nonconformists, the most reprinted devotional works included Lewis Bayly's The Practise of Pietie (1612), Samuel Smith's The Great Assize (1617), Henry Scudder's The Christians Daily Walke (1627), and Arthur Dent's The Plaine Man's Path-way to Heaven (1601). The titles are in part informational texts, used as reference manuals to prescribe conduct. Unlike secularized conduct books of gentility, the devotional works guided behavior through a kind of Renaissance soul-fashioning, wherein the pious life was nurtured. Indeed, their popularity poses a challenge to descriptions of English literary culture of the period. Steady sellers are best understood through numbers of editions, and these numbers far outweigh those of poetry or drama editions published in the period. On mandate from the Stationers' Company, London print runs in the seventeenth century averaged between 1,250 and 2,000 copies per edition; although higher runs occurred when enterprising printers evaded official policy and when control weakened during mid-century tumult, runs were oftentimes much lower. Works thus published in only one edition would not have the enduring impact of Bayly, Dent, and Smith, which each went through over thirty editions up to 1700. At the same time, the number of copies per steady-seller edition could be much higher, because they were produced in smaller formats; one impression of Joseph Alleine's An Alarme to Unconverted Sinners (1673) is said to have run to 30,000 copies. These small encyclopedic manuals - formatted in duodecimo and sixteenmo, often between four hundred and six hundred pages long - have been called "short, tubby bricks" by the historian of religion Stephen Foster (87). While meditational poetry, fast-day jeremiads, captivity tales, and Shakespearean drama deserve our attention, the devotional steady sellers must be reckoned a - perhaps the - canon of popular reading in the early modern West.
At another level, Rowlandson's play with the crux is fully consistent with the import of the devotional steady sellers, which likewise comprehend textuality as a nonlinear, performative sensorium. The steady sellers are structured by cross-referencing: their indexical organization, as well as their verbal content, promotes discontinuous reading, akin to Rowlandson's learned research. Although they existed in a print format, the steady-seller canon presents evidence of its oral performance, and its passages existed also as scribal commonplaces, echoing Rowlandson's preaching style and behavioral expectation. The aesthetics of the steady sellers, like Rowlandson's wordplay, call on the creative rendering and sensory experience of the word, on the varied meanings that emerge from its mediation through sight, sound, and gesture. Nonlinear, performative, and sensorium are words rarely associated - alone, much less together - with the seventeenth-century English devout who transplanted themselves to Algonquian lands and occupied southern New England. The description is closer to the language of a different set of zealots, the twenty-first-century digerati who proclaim the death of the book. But, in fact, the steady sellers illustrate a central point book historians make in response to the digital hype. Historically, books - the steady sellers are an exemplary case - have been search engines, randomly accessed and cross-referenced; they have been physically experienced, engaging the senses in public and private settings; and they have been radically unstable, printed with multiple variants and disseminated in reconfigured formats. As many book specialists have indicated, the salient analogy in the Western tradition for the current information revolution is not the change from manuscript to print but rather the shift from scroll to codex in the second to fifth centuries CE, when the enforced linearity of self-contained rolls gave way to the nonlinear navigation of individual and multiple books.
The steady sellers thus prompt an inquiry into the idea of literature and the codex format that can benefit literary scholars, digital theorists, and book historians. In this essay, I explain why these devotional titles might be construed as defining a literary culture for the seventeenth century; I also argue that a reading of the religious manuals helps substantiate the scroll-to-codex analogy. At once informational and aesthetic, the steady sellers generate meaning through their thickness. Thickness refers in part to the sensorium of effects implied in the Rowlandson passage, where meaning is multivalent rather than transparent. Thickness also refers more prosaically to the bricklike quality of these six-hundred-page reference works, where meaning is discontinuously gathered rather than linearly developed. To establish a framework, I begin by drawing on editorial theory and information history, both subfields of book studies, to describe the concept of thickening. I then discuss prescriptions for and descriptions of codex use in the conduct literature. The steady sellers portray reading as a performance: they value the nonlinear cross-referencing of passages, handled tactilely and experienced aurally, as contrasted with the conventional image of literacy defined by the silent, solitary, linear consumption of written texts. Next I consider the thickening of these manuals of piety through their iconographic framing. The title image of The Practise of Pietie illustrates how page design engages sight and touch, induces proper gestures, and promotes continuous and discontinuous reading. The analysis turns ultimately to an individual colonist's commonplace book - cum - spiritual diary. Evidence of practice rather than prescription, Joseph Tompson's personal miscellany excerpts passages from the devotional titles, then treats the gathered fragments as reference items to be consulted discretely. My effort thus is twofold: to argue for the cultural work of the codex format in early New England and to show why the devotional steady sellers can be understood as literary expression in the period.
Book history has tended to investigate questions of literary merit in the light of the social uses of aesthetics, examining the contingencies that construct the value of particular texts. If book historians and bibliographers throw cold water on the literary critic's passion for certain authors and genres, they nevertheless remain fairly mute on qualities of a text that foreground the imaginative and the interpretive. This is perhaps a legacy of the scientism behind W. W. Greg's "pure bibliography" and of the quantitative emphasis behind book history's macrological approaches. Within book studies, editorial theory has been more propositional about the literary. Whether implicit in D. F. McKenzie's belief in an aesthetic of decorous professionalism - embodied in William Congreve - or avowed in Hershel Parker's defense of creative frenzy, editors refreshingly document relations between the materiality of a text and its aesthesis. In The Textual Condition, Jerome McGann is especially forward in this regard. With pedagogical clarity, his book presents scholarly vocabulary for textual analysis, protocols for classroom assignments, practical case studies, and a conservative selection of canonical texts. But this institutional function masks an underexamined and more radical claim for literary value. McGann argues for a distinction between historical writing and art writing. For him, historical records are intended to transmit information, and their concrete documentary manifestations do not have a relevant aesthetic dimension. By contrast, literary writing is characterized by multiple levels of intentionality (authorial and nonauthorial) and by multiple documentary forms. Literary works are conveyed through a network of linguistic and bibliographic (or documentary) codes; they are polyvocal and mediated, refusing transparency by both the rich imagination of the author and the mediating agency of editors, institutions, and the artifacts themselves; they are a place where "metaphor and metonymy thrive" (76); and they are subject to multiple editions and wide dispersal. McGann calls this phenomenon the thickening of literary discourse. The elevation of art writing here - derived perhaps from the narrow range of authors and texts that compose McGann's canon - limits the reach of the theory. Indeed, rather than separate artistic creations from historical documents, we might better use this vocabulary, first, to include more kinds of discourse; second, to appreciate the expressivity of records; and, third, to measure textual aesthetics in historicized social formations.
To wit, the social context of writing, publication, and reading in the early modern period differs significantly from that in the post-1700 West; it is, most obviously, a profoundly religious era, such that art writing of the kind practiced by the Romantic and post-Romantic authors McGann prefers is a less germane category.

</file>

<file= AmE06_G67>

Tourists who travel by car  -  and more than four million come every year  -  often start at the landmark Hotel Hershey, which occupies a ridge that rises more than a hundred feet above the Lebanon Valley in central Pennsylvania. It's a Moorish-style fortress with ornamental towers and a green tile roof. The view from its veranda is the best one available. To the south a scene that looks like a model railroad display comes to life. Cars speed along smooth asphalt highways. Lush cornfields give way to a color-splashed amusement park with ten roller coasters, a Ferris wheel, and a snaking monorail. Beyond the neon and flapping pennants stand old factory buildings, church spires, and houses. Every once in a while a freight train will snake its way along the tracks that slice through the valley.
A drive into town on Sand Beach Road, which becomes Park Avenue, takes you along the east flank of the park. The double-track roller coaster  -  ninety feet high at its tallest point  -  is so close to the road that a falling cap could land on your car. Farther along, on a quieter, shady stretch of road waits a small zoo, which is set beside a pristine little creek. Park Avenue then takes a sharp turn and climbs up and over a bridge that crosses railroad tracks. On the other side you are suddenly deposited in another place and time.
In downtown Hershey, the streetlights are shaped like giant Kisses candies. A century-old factory made of soft red brick sprouts a pair of giant smokestacks decorated with the letters H-E-R-S-H-E-Y. The emerald fairways of a golf course stretch out from the factory lawn. Across the avenue, gracious old houses, some dating from 1905, occupy carefully manicured properties.
All of Hershey, including the zoo, the antique town, the amusement park, the playful streetlights, and even the factory, is clean and neat and cheerful. Even the names of the major streets  -  Chocolate Avenue and Cocoa Avenue  -  bring a smile to a visitor's face. And that's before he stops, gets out of the car, and realizes that the air in this Willy Wonka place smells like sweet cocoa. Hershey always smells like this. On a humid summer day when there is no breeze it's so strong you can taste it.
In this town of 13,000 souls, business people and civic boosters promote an image of kindhearted contentment. Squabbling is bad for business, and the main businesses in little Hershey  -  tourism and candy  -  rack up sales in excess of $5 billion per year. For this reason, the great howl of protest that erupted in Hershey in the summer of 2002 drew reporters and TV news crews from around the world.
It all started with small groups of worried citizens meeting in living rooms and kitchens. Then townspeople noticed handmade signs tacked to light poles, staked on lawns, and taped onto shop windows. Some said, "Derail the Sale." Others warned, "Wait 'til Mr. Hershey finds out!"
The object of these protests was the Milton Hershey School Trust, which held controlling interest in the famous chocolate company for the benefit of a residential school for needy children. The stock was worth as much as $10 billion and the trust was planning to sell it to the highest bidder. Fifty-seven years earlier, when founder Milton S. Hershey died, the trust guaranteed that local residents who shared a common sense of purpose and community would run the company and protect the economy of the town. If the stock was sold, the chocolate-making firm that had represented the playful and prosperous spirit of the community for a century would pass from local control.
Worried conversations about the sale quickly led to an organized opposition. Finally, on a scorching hot Friday in August, more than five hundred citizens marched through downtown waving placards and shouting while police looked on.
This being Hershey, when the people took to the streets they were careful to dress nicely and walk with care, avoiding damage to private lawns and public gardens. Younger protesters kept a kind eye on the elderly marchers to make sure they didn't suffer in the heat. Nobody cursed. Nobody threw a punch, a bottle, or a scrap of litter.
But as mild mannered as the demonstration was, it was also a sign of deeply felt worry. Never in the town's history had such a varied group united behind a single cause. The opposition included many retired Hershey company executives, including the silver-haired former chairman of the board, Richard Zimmerman, who stood to earn a fortune on his stock if the sale went forward. The retired executives were joined by union workers who stood with alumni of the Milton Hershey School. Men who once designed ad campaigns for Hershey bars developed antisale propaganda. Schoolchildren marched beside doctors, lawyers, and local politicians.
At a rally, alumni leader Ric Fouad shouted, "We're not here to mourn, we're here to mobilize!" Onlookers waved placards that read, "Power to the People!" and "Save Our Town!"
The idea of selling the Hershey company was born of good intentions. Board members of the Milton Hershey School Trust, which held a controlling interest in what was formally called the Hershey Foods Corporation, had decided that the charity's dependence on the firm's stock was unwise. American securities markets were in the middle of a long steep decline. Some major companies  -  WorldCom, Enron, etc.  -  were collapsing in scandal and leaving investors with pennies on the dollar. Looking at the perilous markets, the board members secretly decided to sell the trust's stake in Hershey and invest the windfall in a more diverse portfolio.
Although other charities held big stakes in corporations, the situation in Hershey was unusual. For one thing, the trust was devoted to a single enterprise: an eleven-hundred-pupil residential school for needy children. For another, the value of the trust was enormous. Estimated at $5 billion, it was already eight times larger than the endowment of Phillips Exeter Academy, the nation's next-richest school. Indeed, only six universities held larger endowments, which meant that the Milton Hershey School was richer than Cornell, Columbia, or the University of Pennsylvania.
But as big as it was, the trust was unusually vulnerable because a crash in one company's stock price would do enormous damage to its portfolio. The diversification that a sale would make possible would reduce this risk. It could also produce a onetime windfall. Bidders would recognize that Hershey's many brands, which included Reese's, York, and Jolly Ranchers candies, had been underexploited. Properly managed, which might mean breaking the company into pieces, the whole lot might be worth not $5 billion but closer to $10 billion.
From a fiduciary standpoint, selling the company was in the interest of the trust and the Milton Hershey School. And the timing was right. The big global companies that dominated the candy business  -  Nestlé, Cadbury-Schweppes, Kraft  -  were in a buying mood. If the trust board didn't consider selling, it would fail to meet its duty to the institution and its students.
As much as the residents of Hershey cared about the needy children at the school, they had a hard time believing that a sale was necessary. Even without maximizing its investment, the trust's income far exceeded the board's ability to spend it every year. Not that they didn't try. They had built lavish facilities, expanded enrollment, and hired top-notch staff. With the cost of building maintenance factored in, they spent about $100,000 per year per child. And still the excess revenues piled up. How much more could the school need?
With the trust already rich, opponents of the sale thought the board was asking the community to make an unnecessary sacrifice. Roughly six thousand people held jobs in the company, including about three thousand unionized factory workers. A new owner was likely to see that bigger profits could be had if manufacturing were consolidated in other places, where wages, taxes, and other costs were lower. If the factories were moved, the jobs would be very difficult to replace. The change would also affect tourism and the very identity of the community. What's a chocolate town without a chocolate plant?
The town of Hershey had been created first in the imagination of the chocolate industrialist Milton S. Hershey, who then made it real in a place where there had been little more than a few farmhouses and acres of corn. The chocolate factory, the school, and the town were supposed to make up a self-perpetuating little utopia of capitalism and charity, and all three had thrived for ninety-nine years by adhering to his vision.
The idealism of Milton S. Hershey was cited over and over again by those who tried to stop the sale. With no real authority in the matter  -  private trusts are not required to answer to the public  -  they appealed to state officials and the court of public opinion. To do this, they put together a story that described the trustees as greedy and heartless outsiders who didn't understand the destruction they would visit on the town. They then welcomed the national media.
The reporters who came to Hershey saw a tableau of small-town America that was as appealing as the dream M.S., as he was known, held in his mind when he created his factory and his community. And like so many visitors before them, they agreed with the writer who, in the midst of the Great Depression, observed the town of Hershey's stubborn prosperity and isolation and declared it "a 10,000 acre world of its own."
Not one journalist missed the opportunity to flavor the story with references to the town's peculiarities and charming asides about chocolate. By the time the press was through, the entire nation would understand that a uniquely benevolent and impossibly cute village, which called itself "the Sweetest Place on Earth," was being bullied out of its dreamy existence by coldhearted money managers.
"They're threatening to tear the soul out of this community," one community leader told The Washington Post.
In the months-long struggle that took place after the Hershey Trust board acknowledged its plans to sell control of the company, most of the talk was focused on the future. Those who worried about the Hershey School and the children it served noted that other charities had recently lost billions of dollars as their stock holdings declined during the end of the bull market. The enormous David and Lucille Packard Foundation had seen half its money disappear as the price of Hewlett-Packard company shares fell. The Ford Foundation lost one-fifth of its value, and the Annie E. Casey trust fell 13 percent in the same bad market.
Opponents of the sale could argue using their own examples. When Tyco International bought AMP Manufacturing of nearby Harrisburg, it quickly laid off two thousand workers and shut its headquarters facility. Looking further afield, the Hershey sale opponents saw that in town after town where lumber companies, textile plants, and steel mills were sold, communities soon suffered enormous job losses. Smaller companies that supplied goods and services went bankrupt. Downtown business districts became ghost towns with plywood-covered storefronts, property values crumbled, and public services from schools to police withered for lack of tax dollars. Perhaps the best example of this pattern was Gary, Indiana, a prosperous center for steelmaking that became a nationally known symbol of urban blight when the mills shut down.
In Hershey, the competing predictions raised by the trustees and their opponents  -  one side saw disaster, the other a smooth transition  -  left little middle ground and forced people to take a stand. Almost every person the opponents approached, from Milton Hershey School alumni to former company executives and even the governor of Pennsylvania, came out against the sale. Governor Mark Schweicker said that the sale would imperil the state's economy and announced that keeping the company independent was one of his top priorities.

</file>

<file= AmE06_G68>

Elias Disney was a hard man. He worked hard, lived modestly, and worshiped devoutly. His son would say that he believed in "walking a straight and narrow path," and he did, neither smoking nor drinking nor cursing nor carousing. The only diversion he allowed himself as a young man was playing the fiddle, and even then his upbringing was so strict that as a boy he would have to sneak off into the woods to practice. He spoke deliberately, rationing his words, and generally kept his emotions in check, save for his anger, which could erupt violently. He looked hard too, his body thin and taut, his arms ropy, his blue eyes and copper-colored hair offset by his stern visage - long and gaunt, sunken-cheeked and grim-mouthed. It was a pioneer's weathered face - a no-nonsense face, the face of American Gothic. 
But it was also a face etched with years of disappointment - disappointment that would shade and shape the life of his famous son, just as the Disney tenacity, drive, and pride would. The Disneys claimed to trace their lineage to the d'Isignys of Normandy, who had arrived in England with William the Conqueror and fought at the Battle of Hastings. During the English Restoration in the late seventeenth century, a branch of the family, Protestants, moved to Ireland, settling in County Kilkenny, where, Elias Disney would later boast, a Disney was "classed among the intellectual and well-to-do of his time and age." But the Disneys were also ambitious and opportunistic, always searching for a better life. In July 1834, a full decade before the potato famine that would trigger mass migrations, Arundel Elias Disney, Elias Disney's grandfather, sold his holdings, took his wife and two young children to Liverpool, and set out for America aboard the New Jersey with his older brother Robert and Robert's wife and their two children. 
They had intended to settle in America, but Arundel Elias did not stay there long. The next year he moved to the township of Goderich in the wilderness of southwestern Ontario, Canada, just off Lake Huron, and bought 149 acres along the Maitland River. In time Arundel Elias built the area's first grist mill and a sawmill, farmed his land, and fathered sixteen children - eight boys and eight girls. In 1858 the eldest of them, twenty-five-year-old Kepple, who had come on the boat with his parents, married another Irish immigrant named Mary Richardson and moved just north of Goderich to Bluevale in Morris Township, where he bought 100 acres of land and built a small pine cabin. There his first son, Elias, was born on February 6, 1859. 
Though he cleared the stony land and planted orchards, Kepple Disney was a Disney, with airs and dreams, and not the kind of man inclined to stay on a farm forever. He was tall, nearly six feet, and in his nephew's words "as handsome a man as you would ever meet." For a religious man he was also vain, sporting long black whiskers, the ends of which he liked to twirl, and jet-black oiled hair, always well coifed. And he was restless - a trait he would bequeath to his most famous descendant as he bequeathed his sense of self-importance. When oil was struck nearby in what came to be known as Oil Springs, Kepple rented out his farm, deposited his family with his wife's sister, and joined a drilling crew. He was gone for two years, during which time the company struck no oil. He returned to Bluevale and his farm, only to be off again, this time to drill salt wells. He returned a year later, again without his fortune, built himself a new frame house on his land, and reluctantly resumed farming. 
But that did not last either. Hearing of a gold strike in California, he set out in 1877 with eighteen-year-old Elias and his second-eldest son, Robert. They got only as far as Kansas when Kepple changed plans and purchased just over three hundred acres from the Union Pacific Railroad, which was trying to entice people to settle at division points along the train route it was laying through the state. (Since the Disneys were not American citizens, they could not acquire land under the Homestead Act.) The area in which the family settled, Ellis County in the northwestern quadrant of Kansas about halfway across the state, was frontier and rough. Indian massacres were fresh in memory, and the Disneys themselves waited out one Indian scare by stationing themselves all night at their windows with guns. Crime was rampant too. One visitor called the county seat, Hays, the "Sodom of the Plains." 
The climate turned out to be as inhospitable as the inhabitants - dry and bitter cold. At times it was so difficult to farm that the men would join the railroad crews while their wives scavenged for buffalo bones to sell to fertilizer manufacturers. Most of those who stayed on the land turned to livestock since the fields rippled with yellow buffalo grass on which sheep and cows could graze. Farming there either broke men or hardened them, as Elias would be hardened, but being as opportunistic as his Disney forebears, he had no more interest in farming than his father had. He wanted escape. 
Father and son now set their sights on Florida. The winter of 1885 - 86 had been especially brutal in Ellis. Will Disney, Kepple's youngest son, remembered the snow drifting into ten-to-twelve-foot banks, forcing the settlers from the wagon trains heading west to camp in the schoolhouse for six weeks until the weather broke. The snow was so deep that the train tracks were cleared only when six engines were hitched to a dead locomotive with a snowplow and made run after run at the drifts, inching forward and backing up, gradually nudging through. Kepple, tired of the cruel Kansas weather, decided to join a neighbor family on a reconnaissance trip to Lake County, in the middle of Florida, where the neighbors had relatives. Elias went with him. 
For Elias, Florida held another inducement besides the promise of warm weather and new opportunities. The neighbor family they had accompanied, the Calls, had a sixteen-year-old daughter named Flora. The Calls, like the Disneys, were pioneers who nevertheless disdained the hardscrabble life. Their ancestors had arrived in America from England in 1636, settling first outside Boston and then moving to upstate New York. In 1825 Flora's grandfather, Eber Call, reportedly to escape hostile Indians and bone-chilling cold, left with his wife and three children for Huron County in Ohio, where he cleared several acres and farmed. But Eber Call, like Kepple Disney, had higher aspirations. Two of his daughters became teachers, and his son, Charles, was graduated from Oberlin College in 1847 with high honors. After heading to California to find gold and then drifting through the West for several years, Charles wound up outside Des Moines, Iowa, where he met Henrietta Gross, a German immigrant. They married on September 9, 1855, and returned to his father's house in Ohio. Charles became a teacher. 
Exactly why at the age of fifty-six he decided to leave Ohio in January 1879, after roughly twenty years there and ten children, is a mystery, though a daughter later claimed it was because he was fearful that one of his eight girls might marry into a neighbor family with eight sons, none of whom were sober enough for the devout teacher. Why he chose to become a farmer is equally mysterious, and why he chose Ellis, Kansas, is more mysterious still. The rough-hewn frontier town was nothing like the tranquil Ohio village he had left, and it had little to offer save for cheap land. But Ellis proved no more hospitable to the Calls than it had to the Disneys. Within a year the family had begun to scatter. Flora, scarcely in her teens, was sent to normal school in Ellsworth to be trained as a teacher, and apparently roomed with Albertha Disney, Elias's sister, though it is likely he had already taken notice of her since the families' farms were only two miles from each other. 
Within a few years the weather caught up to the Calls - probably the legendary storm of January 1886. In all likelihood it was the following autumn that they left for Florida by train with Elias and Kepple Disney as company. Kepple returned to Ellis shortly thereafter. Elias stayed on with the Calls. The area where they settled, in the middle of the state, was by one account "howling wilderness" at the time. Even so, after their Kansas experience the Calls found it "beautiful" and thought their new life there would be "promising." It was known generally as Pine Island for its piney woods on the wet, high rolling land and for the rivers that isolated it, but it was dotted with new outposts. Elias settled in Acron, where there were only seven families; the Calls settled in adjoining Kismet. Charles cleared some acreage to raise oranges and took up teaching again in neighboring Norristown, while Flora became the teacher in Acron her first year and Paisley her second. Meanwhile Elias delivered mail from a horse-drawn buckboard and courted Flora. 
Their marriage, at the Calls' home in Kismet on New Year's Day 1888, wedded the intrepid determination of the Disneys with the softer, more intellectual temper of the Calls - two strains of earthbound romanticism that would merge in their youngest son. The couple even looked the part, Elias's flinty gauntness contrasting with Flora's amiable roundness, as his age - he was nearly thirty at the time of the wedding - contrasted with the nineteen-year-old bride's youth. Marriage, however, didn't change his fortunes. He had bought an orange grove, but a freeze destroyed most of his crop, forcing him back into delivering the mail. In the meantime Charles Call had an accident while clearing some land of pines, never fully recovered, and died early in 1890. His death loosened the couple's bond to Florida. "Elias was very much like his father; he couldn't be contented very long in any one place," Elias's cousin, Peter Cantelon, observed. The Disney wanderlust and the need to escape would send Elias back north - this time to a nine-room house in Chicago. 
He had been preceded to Chicago by someone who seemed just as blessed as Elias was cursed. Robert Disney, Elias's younger brother by two-and-a-half years, was viewed by the family as the successful one. He was big and handsome - tall, broad, and fleshy where Elias was short, slim, and wiry, and he had an expansive, voluble, glad-handing manner to match his appearance. The "real dandy of the family," his nephew would say. But if Robert Disney looked the very picture of a man of means, the image obscured the fact that he was actually a schemer with talents for convincing and cajoling that Elias could never hope to match. Six months after Elias married Flora, Robert had married a wealthy Boston girl named Margaret Rogers and embarked on his career of speculation in real estate, oil, and even gold mines - anything he could squeeze for a profit. He had come to Chicago in 1889 in anticipation of the 1893 Columbian Exposition, which would celebrate the four-hundredth anniversary of Columbus's discovery of America, and had built a hotel there. Elias had also come for the promise of employment from the fair, but his dreams were humbler. Living in his brother's shadow, he was hoping for work not as a magnate but as a carpenter, a skill he had apparently acquired while laboring on the railroad in his knockabout days. 
The Disneys arrived in Chicago late in the spring of 1890, a few months after Charles Call's death, with their infant son, Herbert, and with Flora pregnant again. Elias rented a one-story frame cottage at 3515 South Vernon on the city's south side, an old mid-nineteenth-century farmhouse now isolated amid much more expensive residences; its chief recommendation was that it was only twenty blocks from the site of the exposition.

</file>

<file= AmE06_G69>

Accompanied by Jorge Solchaga, a thirty-eight-year-old diplomat who works with the Mexican consulate in Phoenix, I walk through a nameless tortilla shop on a side street off the plaza, out its back door, and into a brick-and-cement courtyard teeming with people getting ready to cross. This is one of Altar's countless unregulated and ill-named "guest houses"-tenement flops that offer nothing except a body-sized patch of floor for $5 or $6 a night. On one side of the cramped courtyard, workmen plaster together an add-on to the tenement; its owners clearly realize that they are part of a growth industry. A rickety iron staircase leads us to some second-floor lodgings, a bare twenty-by-twenty-foot room in which about fifty people have put down dieir sleeping mats and backpacks.
In the courtyard once more, Solchaga spots a dark-skinned girl with a nursing-age infant in her lap. She stares at the ground as Solchaga gently warns her that she is about to put her life and that of her child at risk. When he presses her on the dangers, she barely nods. Almost inaudibly she says that she's twenty, but she looks five years younger and somewhat terrified. However, the die is cast. She's given up everything back home and will be heading out into a new world within a few minutes. "Make sure your husband carries three extra gallons of water for you, you hear?" Solchaga says, nodding to the man sitting behind her. As we exit the flop, Solchaga tells me that the blank look in that girl's eyes will surely haunt him. One of his jobs at the consulate is to process the deaths of Mexicans in the United States. Three years ago in Altar, he tells me, he warned another nursing mother not to make the crossing, and less than a week later, when a call came in to his Arizona office requesting him to help identify a "fatality" that had been found in the desert, he recognized the same young woman. "This is my job, and I am used to it," he says. Last year he processed the deaths of 219 Mexicans in the Phoenix area; some were migrants who had wandered in the desert for eight or nine days before their souls and bodies burned out. "It's the young women I never forget," he says, shrugging his shoulders.
The night before my trip to Altar, I had dinner with the Tucson-based journalist Charles Bowden, author of more than fifteen books, most of them set along the border. In perhaps his most acclaimed work. Down by the River, certainly a must-read for anyone researching the border, Bowden describes the poverty that swamps even the more prosperous Mexican border cities and that relentlessly churns the human flow northward. "Over there," he writes of Ciudad Juárez, just across from El Paso, Texas,
most of the streets are unpaved, two thirds of the houses lack any sewage connection. At least 200,000 people in the city live as squatters ... At least 35,000 more poor people descend on Juárez each year. Or sixty thousand, no one is sure. They take jobs at $3 to $5 a day that cannot sustain them.
When they realize that it's only the width of a river-or a twelve-foot wall, or three strands of cattle wire, or a three-day walk, for that matter-that separates them from a First World economy and some reasonable chance at a future, they push nonh. "The Mexican border is the only place," Bowden writes, "where the cyberspace world of a major economy rubs up against a world of raw sewage and mud huts. The world of mud is failing to sustain its people."
Writing Down by the River with a feverish intensity, stringing his phrasings out like bursts of angry jazz, Bowden describes the borderlands as a violent netherworld where both Mexico and the United States can flaunt their most unappealing aspects. Concentrating on the front line of the endless and fruitless war on drugs, he captures the barbaric and bloody energy generated when-and where-the north's insatiable pull for drugs meets the coke, cash, and corruption pushing up from the south. For Bowden, the same inexorable law of supply and demand explains the flow of human cargo-of illegal immigrants.
With an estimated 11-to-1 manufacturing wage differential between the two countries (some experts put the agricultural wage gap at twice that), why is anyone shocked by what's happening? "You're looking at the biggest story of our lives," Bowden told me over dinner. "This is the largest cross-border human migration in history." Though rarely, if ever, posed in those terms, the staggering numbers tend to bolster Bowden's sweeping vision. Something like 15 million to 20 million migrants have crossed into the United States over the last two decades. An equal number are expected to do so in the next twenty years. "People aren't coming here as much as they are leaving a cratered economy," Bowden said. "The only way you'll stop Mexicans coming to the U.S. is if you lower American wages to the same level as Vietnam. Someone worth maybe $100 a month in Mexico who comes to the U.S. becomes a human ATM machine. McCain-Kennedy, Kyl-Cornyn?" he said, referring to the hodge-podge of current immigration-reform proposals. "It's all bullshit. What we're seeing is something right out of the Bible. This is an exodus."
That's certainly the deep emotional impression I come away with as Solchaga and I depart Altar. An hour up the road back toward the border, all vehicles are stopped at a checkpoint run by Mexico's orange-and-blue-uniformed Grupo Beta. Created last decade under U.S. pressure and with some American assistance, the Beta teams were intended to be elite Mexican immigration police that would work in tandem with the U.S. Border Patrol on the other side, to stanch the human flow. Then reality intervened. The Beta teams instead went into business, running their own lucrative shakedown schemes on the migrants. A few years ago, the Mexican government simply disarmed the Grupo Beta and reorganized it into a sort of community-assistance force for the migrants-seemingly a mix between the Automobile Club and the Eagle Scouts.
On our way up from Altar to the Beta checkpoint called El Tortugo, Solchaga and I count thirty-one vans coming the other way. Something like 900 crossers have been delivered to the border in the previous hour. Now, at the Grupo Beta roadblock, the vans coming behind us are arriving every three or four minutes. As each one arrives, two Beta officers unload the passengers and gather them by the side of the road for a short lecture-sometimes two or three vans' worth at a time. "However long the pollero told you it will take, it will take longer," says officer Julio Cesar Cancino. "If they told you it will be a two- or three-day walk, they lied. It will take longer." He advises them, in the event they get scattered, to look for the blue flags that demark water stations set up by American religious activists. Or to look for the red lights on the radio towers on the Mexican side of the border. "Whatever you do, don't run. The migra," he says, referring to the Border Patrol in Mexican slang, "isn't there only to arrest you, but also to help you. If you're in trouble, if you're lost and out of water, or if your pollero abandons you, go to them for help. But don't run. And don't reach for your pockets."
Like the girl that Solchaga had warned earlier in the day, these groups of crossers don't quite know what to make of this advice. They don't know whether to trust fellow Mexicans in uniform. Isn't endemic corruption one of the reasons they're leaving Mexico, after all? They shuffle their feet and stare down at the ground, or off into the middle distance, and don't look the Grupo Beta officers in the eye. When asked, they quietly tick off their home states: Oaxaca, Veracruz, Puebla, Chiapas, Michoacan. And they aren't shy about their destinations: Los Angeles, Phoenix, Houston, San Bernardino, Portland, New Jersey. Bowden is right. An exodus, indeed.
Rural, lightly educated, some of them indigenous people who speak only broken Spanish, they wouldn't be able to tell a McCain from a McGillicutty. They don't know, nor do they care, how much the Border Patrol has been reinforced in the past decade, how many millions have been spent in the past five years on new border fences, sensors, stadium lighting, infrared scopes, remote-control cameras, Black Hawk helicopters, and even unmanned aerial drones that will track them-or at least will try. (Almost $430 million has been invested since 1997 in border technology systems. But a recent audit by the Department of Homeland Security estimated that fewer than 1 percent of the sensor alerts have led to arrests. Most of the alarms are set off by passing trains and cows, producing a massive waste of time. Radar systems that are used to find tunnels under border walls have proved just as ineffective. The longest known tunnel-2,400 feet, near San Diego-was discovered, in late January, because of a tip, not technology.) What difference does it make if this or that House committee has marked up one or another bill, or if Lou Dobbs is back on CNN bloviating about "broken borders," or if some gringos calling themselves Minutemen have camped out in lawn chairs on the other side? All the migrants know is that the young man sitting with them in the van has vowed to get them to the promised land, and that's where they're going. They're aware that the next three or four or more days will be tough-though few know just how tough. But the choice is, maybe, between working a cornfield for $4 a day in the south or picking grapes in the north for $60 or $70. By nightfall, all of the travelers will be moving across the border. The Grupo Beta officers, however, will be withdrawing. As has always been the case, the migrants will be on their own after dusk. "We leave at dark," Officer Cancino tells me. He points to the myriad bullet holes in the twisted road sign reading EL TORTUGO. "After that, it's way too dangerous."
Making the crossing ever more dangerous seems to be about the only tangible result of U.S. border policy in the past decade. In 1994, the Clinton administration-fearing the political repercussions after the anti-immigrant Proposition 187 passed in California-implemented a "prevention through deterrence" border program. One after another, the traditional urban crossing points, near San Diego, Nogales, and El Paso, were simply blockaded and more or less shut down. Military-sounding campaigns like Operation Gatekeeper, Operation Hold-the-Line, Operation Safeguard, and Operation Rio Grande didn't do much to keep the migrants out of the United States. But driving them away from border cities got them-for a while, at least-out of the news. Historic and decades-old human streams were rerouted from California and Texas and funneled into the relatively unpopulated, inhospitable terrain along the Arizona border. Out of sight. Out of mind. Again, for a time.
No one was actually deterred, but more people died. Since the early 1990s, whatever the official policy, the Border Patrol has made about a million "apprehensions" per year (the number of detainees this past year was almost identical to that of 1993). And every year about half as many people-500,000 or so-elude arrest and make it across. But in 1994, the year of the Clinton clampdown, a total of twenty-three migrants died attempting passage. That number climbed to average 300 a year in the late 1990s and has topped 400 annually since 2000. Last year's toll set a new record: nearly 500, more than half of them in south-central Arizona.
At the same time that the United States was blocking the border arteries, its trade policies were only increasing the pressure on Mexicans to leave their country. Before the 1993 passage of the North American Free Trade Agreement, only about 2.5 million undocumented Mexicans were living in the United States.

</file>

<file= AmE06_G70>

The poor's very poverty shunted them into a morally coarsening economic underworld. That view catalyzed sympathy for the poor, but it unintentionally transformed the logic of wealth, ff poor people stumble into vice because, quite simply, they are poor, then wealthy people, not being poor, must not be morally vulnerable in this way. They must be able to afford the luxury of moral free will that the poor cannot afford.
We Americans are especially infuriated and surprised these days when rich people lapse morally because we seem to expect the rich to be more virtuous because they are rich, not less. It is a stunning reversal of the old Populist wisdom that of course the rich are less moral than the poor! After all, that is what makes them rich.
My family's lingering moral horror of wealth (I can still hear my mother chiding me, "Who do you think you are, the Queen of Sheba?") warred in my mind against this vague but powerful logic that to be poor was to be morally frail, vulnerable even in one's soul and character.
So, of course, I wanted to be the Queen of Sheba. This had little-nothing, really - to do with greed or materialism. To be wealthy was to be safe in the deepest recesses of my life, and protected from helplessness that would deprive me even of my "moral choice." If the middle class was fluid, the upper class was ice, a solid security, frozen in place.
Growing up, I was often contiguous to old wealth. I found it and it found me on a current of mutual need and enchantment. I acquired the patois of wealth - references to "old" Greenwich over new, names of obscure towns in Westchester, use less minutia about how counselors at New England boarding schools help place their students in Ivy League colleges, and an assortment of tips like: do not bring hot dogs to "barbeques," bring shark or tuna; talk about "old" friends when you mean to say people you do not want to see anymore. Do not be too ambitious professionally (they aren't). Rich people love big, slobbery dogs like family members.They have money, but they never seem to have cash on them. In the velvety green valleys of wealth surrounding Baltimore, they drink Southsides during long summer evenings.
One September on a visit to Yale while I was still in high school, I saw the wealthy in the aggregate. It was like going from a zoo with one elephant on conspicuous display to a snarl on the Serengeti. Here, the wealthy stampeded through. As I watched from the periphery, a Margaret Mead of American privilege, parents unloaded their children for the new school year. Well-tended, unafflicted, and perfectly antiseptic, they betrayed no physical trace of a life mangled by circumstance. The women possessed the secret of wearing linen dresses that did not rumple, wilt, or hang on the body on hot days. And they knew how to disappear on cue, without emotionally sloppy, prolonged departures. They moved nimbly with their boxes, pecked their children goodbye, and receded back into lush anonymity. Being cruelly vapid in the way of many adolescents, I lusted after these blandly attractive parents with their chiseled cheekbones and their tidy dresses.
This must be what author Richard Sennett meant by the "hidden injuries of class." I still cringe when my sister reminds me of my campaign to impress an early boyfriend, an Andover nerd whom I had met while impersonating a rich person during a high school summer abroad. I campaigned unsuccessfully to substitute pictures in my house of my actual relatives - poor farmers and poultry, workers - with ancient pictures of fake relatives that I had excavated from a box at a yard sale. I thought they looked more dignified than my actual ancestors, I suppose.
Ambitious, driven students who live on the razor's edge of success, by the grace of their wits, essays, and SAT scores alone, probably spend a lot of time in some version of disorienting, covetous class drag like this. My parents had no patience with it. "Why don't you just go to a school that wants you," they said, exasperated, as I agonized through the college application process. "What difference does it make?"
For as much as wealth played on my imagination, the mechanisms of wealth were just as profound a mystery. In this I am not alone.Most Americans have a view of the economy that verges on the superstitious. The National Council on Economic Education says that two-thirds of students - and half of adult Americans - do not know that stock markets bring together buyers and sellers. The evening national newscasts of my youth featured a sleepy, 30-second summary of the glacial movement of the Dow right before a commercial break, sometimes proffering a hopelessly truncated explanation: "Today the Dow climbed two points in reaction to the imminent royal marriage. Now a word from our sponsor." High priest Man Greenspan presided over the economy with cryptic pronouncements that were parsed with Talmudic care by his acolytes in the financial media. Even congressional representatives barely hoped to understand him, or to divine whether his insights supported or refuted their own exceedingly simpler political stances.
In college I studied the cultural syntax and logic of the economy and the market and learned not a thing about the actual economy or an actual market. Communist philosopher Antonio Gramsci cautioned in the early 1900s against thinking of class struggle solely in terms of the economic base rather than the cultural superstructure. But my encounter with the study of capitalism was strictly superstructure, no base. It was a rich metaphoric lode. I contemplated the reverberations of a "market economy" (however it actually operated) in sex, desire, sport - anything but the actual economy. I could have - should have - taken a basic macroeconomics class, but that would have felt intellectually sleazy. One didn't want to imbibe too much of capitalism, for fear that to know too much about it was to endorse it or to believe in its ineluctability. Mostly I learned about capitalism circuitously and gesturally through reading Karl Marx or, even more slothfully, by reading embattled Marxist theorists. In the humanities, economics seemed more about cultural mood and style than money.
Not that commodities markets are any more literal or obvious than my poetic musings on the impact of capitalism on marriage or on the popularity of a movie. Although traders may trade oil, they do not actually handle, possess, see, touch, or otherwise come into contact with actual crude oil. Rather, traders make money by taking a position in the market, and then rolling their contracts into the next month, so that at no point do they actually consummate a contract and become the proud owners of 10,000 pigs or 50,000 bags of coffee. Were there a glitch in the model, Sam's firm could end up with a bemused ups driver scratching his head outside the doors of their office building, with an order to roll thousands of barrels of light sweet crude down their plushly carpeted halls.
Commodities futures are about transactions two or three times removed from an object and a person. But it is hard to resist the impulse to embody it in cozy, simpler images from the preindustrial age - a handshake, a tangible, heavy object trading hands, a pat on the back. Sometimes I imagine myself swimming in a vat of coffee beans or strapped on to a wooden barrel of sweet crude, adrift on the currents of a vast, temperamental ocean. The market baffles me, because it is, in actual fact, fantastical. The money exchanged globally on any day paralyzes the imagination. Outwitting these notoriously jittery, flamboyant markets requires conceptual leaps, and the profitable genius of being able to discern pattern and logic in the cacophony of trillions of knotty, tangled transactions. But now my life is intimately and directly linked to the global circulation of soy beans or pork bellies or crude oil that I will never touch, possess, or see.
Other people's enduring ignorance about these markets is one source of the wealth. Many things have been called the secret to wealth: ambition, self-discipline, immorality, deceit, stubbornness, brilliance, inherited privilege, good luck. But I think now that the secret to wealth is secrecy itself. It is the wedge of wealth, a means of getting traction on the market. Knowledge dispersed equalizes power, and knowledge hoarded skews it. My husband's model is a secret, and other wealthy people have their own secrets - knowledge, a contact, a loophole.
Wealth in turn elicits more conspiratorial secrecy. Secrecy is as important to accumulating the money as to making it. To avoid becoming immorally extravagant, wasteful, and decadent, you have to calibrate money with desire delicately. And desire is a reckless, dangerous pacesetter. Once Potential increases, Desire ratchets up to retain its competitive advantage. You have to maintain canned-tuna tastes on a caviar budget in a credit-card abusing culture. Almost no one pulls that trick off, except for the janitors and secretaries you occasionally read about in the obituaries, who had quietly accumulated a million dollars' worth of the crumbs that had fallen their way during 30 years of minimum-wage work. They remained poor in their souls even as they became materially wealthy.For the rest of us, each of us is a tightly wound spring, poised and just waiting for the winning lottery ticket to pay the bill on a dream life already purchased on credit. For this reason, a substantial minority of American lottery winners end up not only poor but downright broke or bankrupt a few years later. One lottery winner I read about bought a roundtrip ticket to wealth and returned home to poverty and a trailer smaller than the one she had started in.
Ostensibly, nothing has changed in the lives my husband and I lead. We live in the same house, although we could move, and we drive the same domestic cars, although we could trade up. We do not want many things. But my world is becoming quietly fortified.Gaudy nouveau fiche decoys deflect attention and absorb criticism, while others cocoon into newfound privilege and keep their good fortune to themselves. Historian Simon Schama writes about the peculiar "moral ambiguity of good fortune" that seized Dutch culture through centuries of prosperity,, a "self-consciousness" about wealth that "we think of as embarrassed." Alexis de Tocqueville also observed in the early 1800s the "singular melancholy" that haunted Americans "amid their abundance."
There is something self-incriminating about admitting wealth and poverty alike. The poor do not confess to being poor; the wealthy do not admit to being wealthy. The poor are ashamed, and the rich (at least some of them) are embarrassed. So wealth whispers under its breath like a closeted subculture. I have newfound theories about Yale's cryptic, hyper-exclusive Skull and Bones social club.It must be a place where members can all be gleefully, guiltlessly rich together, rather like the one gay bar in a Kansas town, a social oasis for the extravagantly privileged. Good fortune produces a surprisingly erotic thrill of shame and transgression.
But we are not the only ones in class drag. Almost all Americans claim moral asylum in the endlessly elastic middle class when they are polled or asked about their finances, which creates the illusion of a classless middleclass society. Only the most brazen outliers declare what they are. "I am rich." "I am poor."
Money is not about money anymore. It is more about temperament and legacy and less about tangible things. It buys you the luxury of intergenerational thinking. It buys you entry into a new wing of the philanthropic world. I am not dreaming about things anymore, but about leaving a social legacy, a philanthropic footprint in my city, or in a school, or in politics.
When you have enough of it, money buys you things as abstract and symbolic as the markets themselves. You acquire a deeper, larger palette of actions and emotions, riotous hues that you cannot entirely manage under normal budgets and still keep a job, sanity, or a financial foothold.

</file>

<file= AmE06_G71>

For some time, Nozkowski has concentrated on quirky images on intimately scaled, rectangular canvases, like specimen records from an exotic realm that exists only in terms of the language of painting. Nozkowski presents us with an utterly convincing universe constructed of shapes, drips, strokes, delicate lines, grids, networks, clusters, scrolls, and more. Many of the recent pictures rang changes on repetitive, all-over patterns or systems, like grids run amok or, in some instances, exotic fabrics, without, however, looking like anything but surprising arrangements of paint on canvas. In one delicious image, Nozkowski deployed groups of angular shapes, large and small, against a brilliant blue ground, with an overscaled, curvaceous yellow shape, front and center. The floating patterns remained steadfastly abstract but also recalled Inca textiles, old IBM punch cards, Indonesian ikats, battalions drawn up before an encounter, and more - including Matisse's use of fabrics as intermediaries between perception and invention. In another deceptively simple picture, Nozkowski seemed to dissect and codify the act of spreading paint, presenting rows of gently curving, "combed" lines that shifted almost imperceptibly from yellow to red.
These insistent motifs made Nozkowski's new pictures more frontal than in the past, since his inventively worked expanses announced literal surface more than they intimated ambiguous spaces. Each painting had a different scale. A brushy, bright blue "pierced" composition, like a close-up view of an irregular grid, seemed brusquely intimate; a delicate network of balls and lines hovered discreetly in the middle distance. Like all of Nozkowski's images, his new works are at once achingly evocative and eccentric, even funny. As wordless documents of the painter's antic, well-furnished mind, the pictures conjure up inchoate longings, nostalgia for things you can't quite remember or never knew, and they do so wholly in terms of exquisite surfaces and a ravishing touch. Then they sandbag you with their sly wit. Nozkowski's marvelous paintings make you look hard and long, and if you put in the time, they yield wonderful surprises.
Materially and conceptually, Bruce Gagnier's (idiosyncratic, authoritative) figure sculptures, at Lori Bookstein Fine Art, were polar opposites of Marioni's and Nozkowski's abstract paintings; aesthetically, they claimed similar terrain. Gagnier's slightly smaller than life-size nudes -  about three-quarter scale - are both fascinating and hard work. They make clear their author's deep knowledge and love of such masters as Donatello and Michelangelo, but they're devoid of sentimental desire for the past. The wrenched anatomy and passionately worked surfaces of Gagnier's figures locate them unmistakably in the present, with all its accumulated historical baggage and anxiety.
As you moved around the standing nudes, their profiles kept changing unexpectedly, an unusual phenomenon in figure sculpture, since our ingrained familiarity with the body almost always cancels the possibility of surprise. But Gagnier twists and torques anatomy, as if making the traces of movement into tangible forms. A pulled-out arm, an outthrust hip, a dropped shoulder, a lengthened torso appeared not to be liberties taken for the sake of expression but rather seemed to be inevitable records of gestures or diagrams of the transfer of weight. Everything seemed impelled by internal forces - which are not the same as internal anatomical structures. Coarsely inflected surfaces bore witness to Gagnier's additive process, a time-honored system of modeling with small balls of material, like a three-dimensional equivalent of Michelangelo's nerviest drawings. By laying bare his method, however traditional, Gagnier emphasized the immediacy of sculpture-making and, therefore, its modernism. Combined with his exaggerated, stretched poses and unstable profiles, his rough-hewn forms suggested that the images before you were only momentary coalitions of matter, frozen trajectories in space made temporarily visible.
Gagnier also showed paintings of standing nudes and clothed "portrait" busts, which similarly announced his fascination with the past, without, unfortunately, the tension, stubbornness, or strangeness of the sculptures. Fortunately, it wasn't difficult to ignore these lesser efforts, since Gagnier's ferocious, uncompromising sculptures, with their dry, matte surfaces, were insistent in their demands for attention. Uningratiating, uneasy, and, as it turns out, unforgettable, they richly rewarded time spent with them.
Linda Schrank's elegant abstractions at Stephen Rosenberg and Susanna Heller's wacky urban landscapes at Magnan Projects posited very different ideas of picture-making, but both did so with conviction and originality. At first acquaintance, Schrank's recent panels seemed to be loose accretions of opposing swipes, rather like casual, layered grids. Very quickly, they began to unravel and to declare themselves as palimpsests of rhythmic marks, at a range of different scales, warped out of true, but loosely disciplined by the dominant square of the support. A kind of basket-weave structure, now more visible, now less, kept everything together, but flexed and swayed, as if responding to shifts in tension determined from outside the borders of the image or distorted by internal pressures. Broad translucent bands cancelled out notes of more opaque color, creating a luminous, golden haze, while dark, repetitive, scraped-through dots, lozenges and staccato bars provided counterpoint and established new, more elusive spatial zones. It all seemed relaxed and spontaneous, but when you tried to penetrate Schrank's dense tangles of strokes and sweeps, you discovered that you were quickly repelled and turned back to the painted surface.
For all the aggressive materiality of Schrank's recent paintings, their lush, radiant hues and sense of unifying warmth - or coolness, in some of the works on paper - had associations with the art of the past. But just when it seemed as if these dense, deceptive pictures were woven out of the artist's fragmented recollections of the old and modern masters she most reveres, the floating dots and lozenges triggered thoughts of the photomechanical and the commercial, further destabilizing associations and rendering Schrank's paintings even more mysterious. I liked best some of the middle-size pictures, in which the scale of the mark and the scale of the whole panel seemed particularly felicitous. By contrast, the marks in some larger panels seemed a little small for the task. But that's a quibble. Schrank's recent show included some of her strongest paintings to date. They made me eager to see what she will produce in the next months at the Italian studio where she spends part of every year.
The narrow, slightly claustrophobic Chelsea space where Susanna Heller showed recent paintings last season was curiously appropriate for her latest images of a bewildering, off-balance New York. For years, Heller has reported on her offbeat responses to her adopted home - for her, a city of precipitous drops and upthrusts, collapsing distances and tilting ground planes. In her energetic paintings, Manhattan's orderly grid explodes; land and water collide, apparently squeezing the urban infrastructure into being. Heller diagrams both the energy of the city, its moods, and her changing perceptions in near-abstract, expressionist terms.
She takes a long view, often from the perspective of the outer boroughs. She has painted riffs on lower Manhattan from across the flats of Brooklyn (with side trips to Coney Island). A series of dizzying views from the World Trade Center substituted vertical distance for horizontal, with dramatic effect. The recent paintings were inventions based on views across the Hudson from New Jersey, with the complexities of the vast river, its banks and waterfront structures, and the magical towers of Manhattan used as themes for unfettered improvisations. Slashing, whirligig drawing competed with nervously scrubbed zones of color. Denied a secure location from which to orient yourself, your relationship to the implied space of the painting was never stable. You hovered, zoomed in, stayed back - sometimes, improbably enough, simultaneously - grabbing fragments of imagery and bold incidents of drawing or painting for support. And then you were off again, sailing through Heller's lively inventions and savoring her urgent touch. Heller has been a force to be reckoned with for many years, but her newest work seemed to me to reach a new level of freedom, looseness, and, paradoxically, specificity of place. The recent paintings are a little noisy and insist that you pay attention immediately, but they become juicier and more peculiar (in a good way) with time, so much so that I suspect they'd be both exciting and satisfying to live with.
Residents of 70 Washington Street, DUMBO, have the luxury of living with one of the highlights of the past season, a playful, richly colored, permanent installation by the British-born sculptor Helen Brough that turns the lobby into a fantasy garden. Emulated Flora plays tricks on conceptions of reality and illusion. Exuberant, stylized blossoms - smoothly curving floral shapes, laser-cut from translucent, colored Plexiglas - appear to burst through the ceiling, suspended or fixed directly to an expanse of mirror-polished stainless steel overhead. The layered color changes from every viewpoint, while reflections expand and double the sensuous floral shapes, creating a lush "bouquet" overhead, and making the space seem limitless. Shifts in the sizes of the blossoms, along with occasional mirrored shapes and the radiant, light- catching edges of the Plexiglas, further enrich Emulated Flora and add to its light-hearted charm. Oddly, the sculpture is most crisply delineated and most rational when seen in the lobby's wall-mounted mirror. Check the reality of the piece against the reflection and you are delightfully disoriented, lost in Brough's inverted garden.
There's a nice twist to the history of Emulated Flora. Commissioned by the building's owner, David Walentas, of Two Trees Management, the piece originated in works made by the artist during a residency at the Brooklyn studios of Triangle Arts Association and her participation in Triangle Artists' Workshop, a program for international artists based, since 2002, in DUMBO, thanks to Walentas' support. Triangle's first residency studios, where Brough initially developed the ideas that culminated in Emulated Flora, were located in 70 Washington Street, before its renovation.
"Trace," a group exhibition at the Whitney Altria, selected by Shamim Momim, included another high point of the past season, Karlis Rekevics' multipart plaster installation, Veracity, Validity, Fabrication, Facts. Rekevics' theme is his remembered experience of the urban environment, usually its neglected, unobserved, industrial corners, which become the starting points for potent abstract structures that suggest real places without replicating them in terms of materials, structural logic, or scale. For the Whitney Altria's glass-walled lobby space, Rekevics played off the dominant structures of the neighborhood, Grand Central and the Pershing Square overpass, where Park Avenue hoists itself up to surround the great Beaux-Arts terminal building. Typically, however, Rekevics' points of departure were elements you had to work to discover in the built environment, even after he had alerted you to their existence: the rivet-studded sides of girders, a protective canopy with strings of lights, a supporting truss. These were translated into mysterious fragmented constructions built of plaster slabs, eerily illuminated by their own light sources.
A low-lying scalloped "canopy" lifted itself to hover tensely above the ground, like a Yoga adept in a gravity-defining pose; the golden light from a row of naked bulbs became a palpable force thrusting the elegant plaster slabs upward. Perhaps even more compelling was a skewed assembly of wedge-shaped, pierced "girders" and a horizontal slab, sliced to expose metal reinforcements, like abrupt drawing strokes. Here the light source was hidden, so that the sculpture seemed to generate an inexplicable rosy glow that became a kind of structural element. The pool of light not only colored the plaster but more importantly cancelled out the shadows cast by the misaligned, loose- jointed "beams," disembodying the massive structure, and making it even more uncanny and poetic. The third large component - a row of slabs evocative of old-style riveted girders, studded with naked light bulbs, one deliberately turned off to suggest the passage of time - was the most logical and clearest, in its reference and structure. Yet as in the other elements, Rekevics subverted expectations by disrupting your relation to the sculpture, forbidding you to consider them as literal responses to their sources, no matter how resonant their associations. Instead you saw through the sculptures, looked down on them, or were stopped by them, chest high, encountering each pale, dislocated construction in an unexpected way that both abstracted it into an autonomous, richly associative object and forced you to measure yourself against it to determine its irrational scale.

</file>

<file= AmE06_G72>

As a result, many of the military plans, defense policies, and national security doctrines that officials in the United States and other countries now take for granted are likely to become obsolete and will need to be revised significantly.
WILL DETERRENCE WORK?
Assume, for the sake of argument, that within the next decade Iran manages to acquire a few crude nuclear weapons and that these can be delivered by ballistic missiles within the Middle East and by clandestine means to the United States and Europe. Assume also that Saudi Arabia and Turkey, out of fear or competitive emulation, also develop their own nuclear arsenals. How would strategic interactions in this new world play out?
During the Cold War, the small number of nuclear states meant that the identity of any nuclear attacker would be obvious. Preparations could thus be made for retaliation, and this helped deter first strikes. In a multipolar nuclear Middle East, however, such logic might not hold. For deterrence to work in such an environment, there would have to be detection systems that could unambiguously determine whether a nuclear-armed ballistic missile was launched from, say, Iran, Turkey, or Saudi Arabia. In earlier decades, the United States spent an enormous amount of resources on over-the-horizon radars and satellites that could detect the origin of missile launches in the Soviet Union. But those systems were optimized to monitor the Soviet Union and may not be as effective at identifying launches conducted from other countries. It may be technically simple for the United States (or Israel or Saudi Arabia) to deploy such systems, but until they exist and their effectiveness is demonstrated, deterrence might well be weak; it would be difficult to retaliate against a bomb that has no clear return address.
It gets worse. During the Cold War, most analysts considered it unlikely that nuclear weapons would be used during peacetime; they worried more about the possibility of a nuclear conflict somehow emerging out of a conventional war. That scenario would still be the most likely in a postproliferation future as well, but the frequency of conventional wars in the Middle East would make it a less comforting prospect. If a nuclear-armed ballistic missile were launched while conventional fighting involving non-nuclear-armed ballistic missiles was going on in the region, how confident would any government be that it could identify the party responsible? The difficulty would be greater still if an airplane or a cruise missile were used to deliver the nuclear weapon.
One of the greatest fears about Iran's possible acquisition of nuclear weapons, moreover, is that Tehran might give them to a terrorist group, which would dramatically increase the likelihood of their being used. Some argue that the Iranian government would never condone such a transfer; others that it would. There is no way of knowing for sure. What can be said, however, is that the likelihood of a clandestine transfer to radical Islamist terrorists will increase if the number of Islamic nuclear powers grows, if only because it would get more difficult to identify the state responsible for the transfer so as to punish it.
If an Islamist terrorist group acquired fissile material or a nuclear bomb today, it would be hard to determine with certainty which country had provided it. Attention would focus on Pakistan, the only Islamic state currently in possession of nuclear weapons. But uncertainty would grow if more Islamic states went nuclear, and retaliation would become all but impossible unless one were willing to strike back indiscriminately at all suspect states.
RACE MATTERS
During the Cold War, the United States and the Soviet Union engaged in an intense arms race and built up vast nuclear arsenals. Other binary nuclear competitions, however, such as that between India and Pakistan, have been free of such behavior. Those states' arsenals have remained fairly small and relatively unsophisticated.
Nuclear-armed countries in the Middle East would be unlikely to display such restraint. Iran and Iraq would be much too suspicious of each other, as would Saudi Arabia and Iran, Turkey and Iraq, and so forth. And then there is Israel. Wariness would create the classic conditions for a multipolar arms race, with Israel arming against all possible enemies and the Islamic states arming against Israel and one another.
Historical evidence suggests that arms races sometimes precipitate wars because governments come to see conflict as preferable to financial exhaustion or believe they can gain a temporary military advantage through war. Arguably, a nuclear war would be so destructive that its prospect might well dissuade states from escalating conflicts. But energetic arms races would still produce larger arsenals, making it harder to prevent the accidental or unauthorized use of nuclear weapons.
Nuclear arms races might emerge in regions other than the Middle East as well. Asia features many countries with major territorial or political disputes, including five with nuclear weapons (China, India, North Korea, Pakistan, and Russia). Japan and Taiwan could join the list. Most of these countries would have the resources to increase the size and quality of their nuclear arsenals indefinitely if they so chose. They also seem to be nationalist in a way that western European countries no longer are: they are particularly mindful of their sovereignty, relatively uninterested in international organizations, sensitive to slights, and wary about changes in the regional balance of military power. Were the United States to stop serving as guarantor of the current order, Asia might well be, in the words of the Princeton political science professor Aaron Friedberg, "ripe for rivalry" -- including nuclear rivalry. In that case, the region would raise problems similar to those that would be posed by a nuclear Middle East.
The United States has not been strategically affected by the peacetime arms races of other countries since the global competition for naval power and the European bomber contests of the 1920s and 1930s. Were such rivalries to emerge now, it is unclear how Washington would, or should, respond. During the Cold War, U.S. and Soviet strategists worried not only about how to protect their own countries from nuclear attack but also about how to protect their allies. Questions about the credibility of such "extended deterrence" were never fully resolved, but their urgency was lessened, in the United States at least, by Washington's decision to bind itself tightly to its NATO partners (going so far as to station U.S. nuclear missiles in West Germany and Turkey). Similar questions will inevitably return if proliferation continues. In a future confrontation between Iran and Kuwait, for example, a nuclear-armed Tehran might well try to coerce its opponent while treating Washington's protests and threats as a bluff. Would heading off such challenges require the formation of a new set of tight alliances, explicit security guarantees, and integrated defense structures?
Another Cold War concept, known as the stability-instability paradox, posits that actors take advantage of the very fear of nuclear war to pursue lesser sorts of conflict with impunity. This, too, might play out in the future. A nuclear Iran, for example, might support increased terrorism against U.S. forces in the region on the theory that Washington would be reluctant to escalate the conflict.
TERMS OF USE
Nuclear weapons have not been used since 1945, and any further use would come as a profound shock. Yet some future nuclear actors might think that resorting to these weapons would serve their interests. It is not inconceivable, for example, that some state or group might want to show the rest of the world that it is willing and able to violate the most hallowed norms of the international system. Nazi Germany deliberately targeted civilian refugees in Poland in 1939 and in the Netherlands and France in 1940 as part of its strategy of Schrecklichkeit (instilling terror). A quasi-terrorist use of nuclear weapons, not by a small group but by a state that wanted to be recognized as fearsome, would be a contemporary analog.
What kind of state might attempt such a thing? If history is any guide, a state that openly rejects the existing international order, considers its opponents to be less than fully human, and seeks to intimidate others. Alternatively, internal conflicts could create hatreds so powerful that actors might resort to using nuclear weapons; consider, for example, how Moscow might respond if another Chechen attack killed hundreds of Russian children. Some states might also be tempted to use nuclear weapons in other ways. For example, before it started to abandon its nuclear weapons program, South Africa had planned to use its bombs if it was ever approaching military defeat, as a last-ditch effort to draw the superpowers into the conflict. If it were to cross the nuclear threshold, Taiwan might embrace a similar strategy.
By far, however, the most plausible use of nuclear weapons would involve a nuclear power that found itself on the losing side of a nonnuclear war. Such a state would be faced with a choice not between maintaining peace and initiating nuclear war but between accepting its impending defeat and gambling that escalation might suddenly end the fighting without defeat. Conflicts between Iran and Iraq or China and Taiwan are plausible candidates for such a nightmare.
THE DEFENSE SHOULD NOT REST
What, if anything, can be done to prepare intelligently for such contingencies? Pessimists say preparation is pointless, and optimists say it is unnecessary. But there are several steps prudent officials can and should take now.
To bolster the efficacy of deterrence in a world of small, closely located nuclear powers, it would be necessary to deploy surveillance systems that could identify and warn against aircraft movement and missile launches. These systems might be operated on a national or a multilateral basis; in fact, a number of states in exposed regions could contribute to collective efforts to detect airborne threats.
The construction of such a regional surveillance system, moreover, would put in place much of the infrastructure needed to support another useful tool: some form of missile defense. Skeptics of missile defense have often ridiculed, with some reason, the notion that such systems can be effective against nuclear weapons or large numbers of missiles. What they overlook, however, is that even leaky or somewhat ineffective defenses can play a constructive role in deterring an attack from a nuclear power with a small arsenal or lowering the odds that a full-scale nuclear conflict will erupt from a single use (of whatever origin).
Other kinds of defense could also help lower the odds of an attack or mitigate its terrible consequences. U.S. officials should develop the capacity to evacuate those cities at risk of a direct attack or of being in the path of nuclear fallout, as well as stockpile radiation meters, build fallout shelters, and implement other measures first devised in the 1950s. Civil defense came to be seen as a grotesque joke when the Soviet Union acquired tens of thousands of nuclear weapons. But, like missile defense, it could play an important role in a world of smaller nuclear powers.
Should a nuclear bomb get through nevertheless, it would be critical for the government of the targeted state to respond with policies other than doing nothing or ordering indiscriminate retaliation. One option would be to launch a massive nonnuclear military campaign against the responsible party to make sure that such an attack was never repeated. But even with all the will and money in the world, such a response simply could not be summoned up out of the blue; it would require careful planning and preparation.
The United States was able to launch an extraordinary mobilization effort in 1942 not simply because the attack on Pearl Harbor had galvanized the American public, but also because people such as Vannevar Bush (as head of the National Defense Research Committee) and Robert Lovett (as an aide to Secretary of War Henry Stimson) had spent years laying the groundwork for organizing civilian scientists and the automobile industry for military purposes.

</file>

<file= AmE06_G73>

The most talked-about essay in Against Interpretation also mined this pop-culture vein. "Notes on Camp," a long piece dedicated to the spirit of Oscar Wilde, has been largely misunderstood as a flattening of the differences between high and low culture. It is actually a nuanced and complex piece of writing accentuating the contrast between high and low. It introduced the interplay of androgyny and kitsch as the underpinnings of a style since made familiar by drag queens and other expressions of outlandish femininity. "Camp taste draws on a mostly unacknowledged truth of taste: the most refined form of sexual attractiveness (as well as the most refined form of sexual pleasure) consists in going against the grain of one's own sex." Sontag was the first person to describe this "truth of taste," the exploration of gender that would so dominate popular culture in the coming decades of glam and disco. The Times notes, "The article made Ms. Sontag an international celebrity, showered with lavish, if unintentionally ridiculous, titles ('a literary pinup,' 'the Natalie Wood of the U.S. avant-garde')." Or, more bluntly, as the Hollywood Reporter wrote in its obituary (and how many intellectuals, glamorous or not, get an obituary there?), "The 1964 piece 'Notes on Camp,' established her as a major new writer, popularized the 'so bad it's good' attitude toward popular culture, applicable to everything from 'Swan Lake' to feather boas." This is, of course, an oversimplification of her thesis, but accurate in its range and impact. "Camp" encapsulated an attitude never previously named, let alone anatomized, which had existed since the time of Wilde, and Sontag unleashed a certain cultural power by giving it a vocabulary and an arena for discussion. TheNew York Times obituary said that "with 'Notes on Camp,' Ms. Sontag fired a shot across the bow of the New York critical establishment." The Times U.K. agreed: "'Notes on Camp' [was] the essay that established her almost instantly as a cultural commentator of stature." Everyone recognized camp style and recognized Sontag as the critic who got it.
Art critic Arthur C. Danto's appreciation of Sontag in the March 2005 issue ofArtforum magazine, "Passion Play," aligned Sontag, the self-proclaimed "besotted aesthete," with Wilde, the fundamental aesthete (Sontag also called herself an "obsessed moralist," which is where she and Wilde obviously diverged). Aesthetics was an area of acute concern for Sontag. In his reminiscence, Danto references a 1963 review of Camus's notebooks Sontag wrote for the New York Review of Books,which frequently published her work, where she classified writers as husbands or lovers: "Some writers supply the solid virtues of a husband: reliability, intelligibility, generosity, decency. There are other writers in whom one prizes the gifts of a lover, gifts of temperament rather than of moral goodness." Danto places Sontag in the camp of the lovers, "addressing dangerous topics" and "practicing criticism in the spirit of eroticism." Sontag probably would agree, for lovers are charged with the ability to "savor rare emotions and dangerous sensations" in the reader, and she loved to stir things up, as in "Camp," or calling for an "erotics of art" at the end of the essay "Against Interpretation." This need to challenge set her apart from other aesthetes, as Danto notes. Aesthetics, Danto writes, "has traditionally been a fairly dreary specialty in academic philosophy." But Sontag transformed it: "The difference between it and the relationship to art that Sontag exemplified and enjoined was like the difference between sex education and theKama Sutra. That is what made her an aesthetician-hero. Her whole enterprise lay in publicly exemplifying the life of art as she felt it should be lived." This raises the question of how an aesthete should live, according to Sontag. She was criticized for enjoying life, reveling in her looks and her work and the attention both brought her, using her celebrity to draw attention to causes she advocated. She was condemned, in short, for her enthusiasm.
Critics are not often enthusiasts. There is a sense of keeping cool or detached, and even a phrase to describe it: critical distance. Sontag had the opposite impulse: critical intimacy. She claims in the introduction to Against Interpretation that she can write only about what truly engages her - "passionate interest" is her formulation. What it comes down to is that she criticizes what she loves - which made her work and her life a matter of such great intensity. As Craig Seligman wrote in his remembrance of her, "The greatness was in her cool, hardheaded essays on aesthetic matters; as an aesthete defending the senses against the intellect, the new against the established, silence against noise, she was magnificently coldblooded. But she was hotblooded and hotheaded when she turned to politics." Sontag was hot, sharp, passionate about her subjects, though the prose in her essays is always careful, deliberate, and calm.
Along these lines, the Washington Post obituary takes a balanced approach to Sontag, claiming that she "engaged and enraged equally with her insights into high and low culture." It praises her best pieces, the essays on writers, distillations of hero-worship and adoration, most of which appeared in her 1980 collection Under the Sign of Saturn. Explorations of photography (On Photography) and the language of pain and suffering (Illness as Metaphor, 1978; expanded into AIDS and Its Metaphors, 1988; Regarding the Pain of Others, 2003) also won her admirers for their innovation and eloquence.
Her last published essay, about torture and the photographs at Abu Ghraib prison, combined both of these preoccupations. "Regarding the Torture of Others," was published in May 2004, when Sontag was already combating her final illness, a "particularly virulent blood cancer." She had written On Photography and Illness as Metaphor during her first bout of cancer, and had vanquished the disease again in her mid-sixties. She wrote the piece on Iraq as she prepared to become a patient for her most harrowing ordeal yet: an adult-stem-cell transplant. "To me, torture is not too strong or hyperbolic a word," her son David wrote in a posthumous article about this final cancer and its effects, "Illness as More Than Metaphor."
In examining the photographs of the torture of Iraqi prisoners Sontag tries to dissect a "public-relations disaster." She keenly observes the administration's avoidance of "the 'torture' word." The people in the photographs had been victims of "abuse" or "humiliation," but that was as far as Bush officials would go. Sontag is not willing to let an abstraction like the administration stand in for the violence perpetrated; she points out the "perpetrators, posing, gloating, over their helpless captives." She discusses how the camera has infiltrated corners of private life heretofore unknown to others: not only in these war atrocities, but those at home, as in the documentary about a family of accused pedophiles, Capturing the Friedmans. This is the strident Sontag, who comes right out and proclaims, with horror: "The photographs are us." It cannot be lost on her that this is the logical end of the Warholian line, webcams recording the most mundane aspects of existence, all these images breeding what she calls a "culture of shamelessness," reveling in "secrets of private life that, formerly, you would have given nearly anything to conceal you now clamor to be invited on a television show to reveal." But the "you" in this sentence is certainly not Sontag herself, who guarded her private life just as carefully as she staged the many photographs of herself.
Her political positions receive more scrutiny in the Washington Post obituary: essays about a trip to Vietnam in the 1960s in which she raged against American imperialism, longtime work on behalf of the people of Bosnia, an impassioned defense of Salman Rushdie when the Ayatollah Khomeini declared a fatwa against him for the Satanic Verses during her presidency of the international writers' organization PEN, a piece in the New Yorker proclaiming the 9/11 terrorists were not cowards. All of this warranted the remark that "occasionally, she caused palpitations among the fervently patriotic for her less-nuanced commentary," and her enemies, like her positions, were on both the left and the right. The Post is not the only obituary to get into Sontag's politics. Her friend Christopher Hitchens's reminiscence of her on Slate.com also probes her political involvements, crediting her with timing "her interventions very deftly." Of the Rushdie case, Hitchens writes that Sontag "mobilized a tremendous campaign of solidarity that dispelled all this masochism and capitulation," referring to the nervousness of many who declined to speak out against Rushdie's attackers. He recalls her confiding in him during a heated moment of the campaign: "'You know, I think about Salman every second. It's as if he was a lover.' I would have done anything for her at that moment," Hitchens recollects, wistfully, "not that she asked or noticed." Her obliviousness to others, not asking or noticing them, seems to be a common theme among Sontag's acolytes - an uncomfortable position, maybe even a mundane form of the torture Sontag was so interested in documenting and dissecting.
Ever the provocateur, Hitchens begins his elegy with this statement: "Between the word 'public' and the word 'intellectual' there falls, or ought to fall, a shadow. The life of the cultivated mind should be private, reticent, discreet: Most of its celebrations will occur with no audience, because there can be no applause for that moment when the solitary reader gets up and paces round the room, having just noticed the hidden image in the sonnet, or the profane joke in the devotional text, or the secret message in the prison diaries. Individual pleasure of this kind is only rivaled when the same reader turns into a writer, and after a long wrestle until daybreak hits on his or her own version of the mot juste, or the unmasking of pretension, or the apt, latent literary connection, or the satire upon tyranny." Sontag was just such a person, Hitchens argues, who passed on her delight with reading, with photography, with old-fashioned international high culture. It is this uneasy public-intellectual version of Sontag that Hitchens's countrymen present in the British obituaries. The Guardian proclaims Sontag the "Dark Lady" of American intellectual life in the headline of her obituary and again in its first line. Yet it goes on to make more of that darkness than just her hair color: "In a culture expecting easy intimacies from its great figures, she was aloof, poised, posed: she was camera-friendly. But you never could claim to know Sontag, however much New York was alive with gossip about her loves, her ex-loves, her next book." The Times U.K. claims that "her polymath expertise and vocal cultural comment made her in subsequent years one of the closest equivalents in her country to the French concept of a public intellectual," a damning-with-faint-praise if ever there were one. The Daily Telegraph deems her "a paragon of radical intelligence and austere beauty of whom it was said that, if she had not existed, the New York Review of Books would have had to invent her."
Several of the obituaries, including the Telegraph's, chart Sontag's move to writing fiction after being blocked from doing so for many years. She had published two experimental (read: unreadable) novels in the 1960s, Death Kit and The Benefactor,but had long abandoned fiction for the more solid ground of the essay. In 1992 she reversed course again and published The Volcano Lover, a historical novel about the romantic triangle between Sir William Hamilton, his wife, Emma, and her lover, Lord Nelson. The book had an unusual genesis: it was "released" in Sontag after a conversation with her psychiatrist when she discovered that her difficulty in writing a popular novel came from a "fear that giving readers pleasure might seem trivial." Her last novel, In America, for which she won the National Book Award in 2000, was not nearly as well received as Volcano, and there were accusations about Sontag relying on uncredited sources in writing her story of nineteenth-century Polish actress Helena Modjeska's emigration and triumph in California.

</file>

<file= AmE06_G74>

The first shovel-load missed his torso and struck his neck, sending soil flying up his nostrils and into his mouth. He started choking and coughing. 
"Sorry, boss," Collins said, looking down into the hole. "I guess the wind took it." 
Stay calm. Conserve energy. Keep the heart rate down. 
Collins and Vickery continued to fill the cavity with moist Santa Ana soil. They had been at this since a little past dawn and their arms were beginning to ache with fatigue. They could only imagine how he must feel. Subconsciously, they moved into a rhythm, one scraping his shovel into the mounds of dirt piled high around them, the other sending his payload straight down into the dank hole. Vickery thought of how his friends would react when he told them of Harry's latest stunt. Of course, that would have to wait until after it was performed. He'd never forget that oath of secrecy that he'd sworn and how seriously Harry seemed to take it. 
Am I pushing myself too hard? I'm forty-one but I look fifty. I'm so gray. 
Vickery began to admit to himself his concern. He had expected his boss to have no problem with the one- and even the two-foot "plantings," as he called them, and he didn't. But the four- and five-foot escapes seemed to really have taken something out of him. What if he hurt himself now, like the time he did in Buffalo? Ever since Harry had burst that blood vessel getting out of those chains, he was in such intense chronic pain he'd had to sleep with a pillow under his left kidney. Vickery never forgave himself for allowing those bastards to pull the chains so tight. 
It's so much hotter down here. How can a few feet make such a difference? I'm starting to feel faint. Stay calm. 
By now the dirt had almost completely covered Houdini's body. The shackles that held his ankles together were completely buried, and the content of two or three more shovelfuls would obscure the last traces of the handcuffs. He knew that his head would be covered next so he braced for the assault of the heavy soil, so as not to eat some again. 
This would be so much easier if I did it in a coffin. We could gimmick a plank. I'd be able to disperse so much more soil using that instead of my bare hands. I'd be out in half the time. 
As soon as he was completely covered by the soil, he began to go to work. Even though his assistants were still filling in the last of the grave, he swiftly slipped out of the cuffs, crouched into a fetal position, and began working on the leg irons. Within seconds, he was free of them too. Now all he had to do was work his way up against the loose earth, slowly, methodically, timing it so that he would be just below the ground when they had finished filling in the hole. Then he'd claw through the loose topsoil and literally escape the grave. But he didn't figure on panicking. 
It wasn't the eerie darkness or the complete silence down there that horrified him; he had grown accustomed to that. It was the sudden realization that he was six feet underground -- the legal requirement for corpses -- that sent a chill up his spine. 
What if I die here? What a field day they'd have in the papers. Houdini Digs His Own Grave. I'd be a laughingstock. 
He gasped involuntarily. Now he began to claw and knee the soil without any concern that he'd get out before they had finished filling in the hole. But that momentary scare -- the irretrievable mistake of all daredevils -- had wasted a fraction of his breath, when every last fraction was needed to get out of the hole. Up above, Collins and Vickery and the others in the party had no idea of the drama that was unfolding four feet below them. 
No! This can't be! Out! Get out! GET OUT! 
All of a sudden the weight of the earth above him felt like a thousand tons. His body stiffened and for one quick second he smelled the acrid odor of death. And then, for the first time in his life, he screamed for help. But that just made it worse. There was no way they could hear him, and now he was squandering what little air and energy he had left. He started pawing at the dirt above him like a wild animal, scratching his hands and arms on the coarse soil. He had long abandoned his slow, steady rhythmic breathing and now he was operating on pure instinct, swallowing and inhaling as much soil as air in one last desperate attempt to escape. 
On the ground, Collins put down his shovel and took out his watch. When it passed the ten-minute mark, he looked at Vickery with concern. 
"If he's not up in thirty seconds, we better go get him," he said. Vickery nodded grimly. The clock slowly ticked off the requisite seconds, and then, just as Collins and Vickery grabbed their shovels and started to frantically dig, the earth suddenly burst open and expelled a bloody, battered, and filthy Houdini, grateful for that measure of fresh, cool, California air. 
"Come, come. Push, push. It's almost over." 
Anne Fleischmann was urging Cecilia Weisz on, alternately wiping her brow and giving her some ice chips to suck on. On March 24, 1874, the small room at RÁkosÁrok utca 1. sz. had been emptied, the three young boys sent out to play. Only a few neighbors were there as Anne expertly cradled the baby's head and turned it slightly to allow the shoulders to emerge. She gently grabbed the baby's chest as the rest of the bloody body was expelled from the womb. 
"Another boy!" Anne said, expertly clipping the umbilical cord and swathing the child in a clean sheet. Then she presented little Erik to his mother, who immediately nestled him to her bosom, where her heartbeat seemed to have a soothing effect on the newborn. It was a sanctuary to which he would often return, that steady heartbeat and her warm caress, a place where the woes of the world could be forgotten. 
Of course, a newborn meant another mouth to feed, and another warm body to share this typically small "room-and-kitchen" flat in the predominately Jewish section of Pest, part of the newly consolidated town of Budapest, Hungary. That made four sons now for Mayer Samuel Weisz, who had recently graduated law school. One could only assume that Mayer Samuel would make a very eloquent solicitor if the story of the courtship of his future wife was any indication. 
Weisz had been a recent widower, his first wife having died during or shortly after giving birth to their son Armin. Perhaps to escape the memories, he moved from the Hungarian countryside to Budapest, a thriving, tolerant, cosmopolitan city destined to become one of the great showpieces of Europe. In Pest a friend of his, in obvious homage to his charisma, asked him to intervene for him in an affair of the heart. His friend was in love with a pretty young maiden, Cecilia Steiner, but he was too shy to make his intentions known to her. Mayer Samuel, who knew Cecilia's mother and her three daughters well, took on this assignment and called upon Cecilia at the small apartment that she shared with her family. Somewhere in the middle of his loquacious address, he realized that he was no proxy; he was expressing his own heartfelt sentiments. And Cecilia, moved, reciprocated. This verbal expression was followed with a formal written marriage proposal, a letter in which, according to family legend, Mayer Samuel documented his whole life history, "telling Her everything, so no one could ever come to Her and relate things." 
They married in 1863 and by 1876 Mayer Samuel Weisz had set off for a new life in America. With Weisz already overseas, Cecilia and the five children sailed from Hamburg for New York on June 19, 1878. They traveled on the Frisia, a six-year-old 364-foot, three-and-a-half-thousand-ton steamship that was powered by a single screw propeller with its one smokestack supplemented by two masts. One could only imagine what memories the young boys had of this fateful trip to America. Armin, fifteen by now, was charged to help Cecilia mind the other boys for she had her hands full with little four-year-old Erik and the two-year-old Dezso. The family traveled in steerage. Cecilia's ticket cost $30 and that afforded her and her sons the privilege of being packed like cattle below the deck in a fetid, poorly lit and ventilated dormitory that held 620 people. Luckily, on this particular voyage the ship was less than half full, which allowed Cecilia to spread out over several cots instead of just one. 
They arrived in New York on July 3 and were processed at the Castle Garden immigration building, where each of them received a new name. Since Cecilia didn't speak English, her responses to the officials were in German. So their names became English variants of German names. Armin became Herman, eight-year-old Natan just had an "h" added, six-year-old Gottfried Vilmos was dubbed William, Erik turned into Ehrich, and Ferencz Dezso was officially named Theo -- later to be nicknamed Dash -- and the family name became Weiss. Cecilia was reunited in New York with her mother and two sisters, who had emigrated earlier, but by September, the entire Weiss family was together again in Appleton, Wisconsin. 
Appleton was a stark contrast to the cramped tenement buildings of New York. Only in existence for twenty-five years, it still had the feel in some ways of a frontier outpost. For the first three years of the Weisses' residence there, livestock were allowed to run free in the streets of the city. It took an additional year for a sewer system to be built and another year to get municipal water flowing (although the system was too primitive to be used above the ground floor of buildings). On the other hand, with a long established college, Lawrence University, a soon-to-open Opera House, and as a regular stop on the lecture circuit, there was a sense of culture that set Appleton apart from its sleepy farm-based small Midwestern town counterparts. 
And for Mayer Samuel Weiss, it had one advantage. He was a friend of one of the town's most prominent businessmen. David Hammel was a clear example of the assimilationist spirit of many Eastern European Jews. He ran several businesses, including a lumberyard, a mill, and a wheat farm. But most of all, he was connected in local politics. Mayer Samuel Weiss came to Appleton with no knowledge of English but with a craving for respectability. Back home he had been a soap maker, but by the time they left the country he had taken law courses and was a practicing solicitor. But this was a different world, and when his friend Hammel told him that the town needed a rabbi, he didn't hesitate. 
"Okay, that's me," said Mayer Samuel. 
So he donned his robes and began conducting services in a makeshift temple, earning $750 a year. At first "the Hebrews of this city," as a local newspaper called them, seemed pleased with the services of their "able" rabbi and hoped that he would "remain permanently among us." His particular forte seemed to be wise words of counsel at milestone events like weddings and funerals. Even though he conducted all his ceremonies and homilies in German, his addresses commanded "the most profound respect." 
Morality lessons weren't just reserved for the pulpit. When Ehrich was only five years old, his father noticed his son playing with some large iron spikes. Further inquiries disclosed that Ehrich had taken them from a local construction site where a bridge was being built.

</file>

<file= AmE06_G75>

The girl from Ghana stretches, and the air around her hums. Night closes in, and the airline personnel report that they are unfortunately unable to offer proper lodging for the evening, as all the hotels in the city are full. None of the passengers believe this. More shouting ensues, and an exodus, all of the locals and a number of hopeful non-locals.
A cafe runs short of creamer; a restaurant runs short of cheese. The airline personnel announce that each passenger still present will receive free cassava crackers and purple tea for the remainder of his or her stay in the airport. The children are very pleased. The poet asks the airline personnel if all traces of cyanide were removed from the cassava roots before they were ground into flour, is assured that in fact they were.
Pillows and blankets are brought from the invisible plane on the tarmac. Children stretch out on the floor. Parents drape themselves with coats. The girl from Ghana stares at the fog, wondering how many days it will take her ex-husband to track her from Berekum. Bars run short of bitters and the cleaning staff cleans, threading themselves between sleepers and sacks in silence.
The poet elbows the accountant, points to the checkerboard protruding from the Mongolian boy's carry-on. Four hours later, with the score 9-7 in favor of the accountant, the old Honduran woman asks if she might play as well. She wins the next twelve matches, falls asleep mid-move at dawn.
The accountant slides the board back into the child's bag. Other passengers stir and scratch. The members of last night's exodus come traipsing back, the locals smiling, satisfied at having chosen wisely, the non-locals exhausted, mumbling anecdotes of numberless cab rides and the infinite walk back from the cargo bay entrance.
Children whine. Airline personnel bring thin coffee and bad rolls, promise that today is the day, that it is only a question of minutes. The fog appears still denser, still grayer, still more certain. The televisions say that the chemical spill is nearly cleaned up and vehicular traffic will soon be permitted on the access road once again.
And the passengers wait. All the bars have run short of cognac and celery sticks. The accountant follows the girl from Ghana into Duty Free, observes her observing ceremonial daggers, buys a key chain bearing an animal that looks part monkey, part ferret, part partridge - a favored local pet. The loudspeaker voice whistles briefly. The televisions flip and flap, a cholera epidemic spreading toward the city, and the airline personnel assure everyone that their best bet now is staying put. Groups are reconfigured: locals versus foreigners. There are hygiene-based accusations, a few punches thrown but none landed.
The children ignore this, chase one another through the wing, and one kicks at a carry-on. Both the child and the carry-on belong to locals, but from different parts of the city, and now the groups split into subgroups, the foreigners based on nationality, the locals based on neighborhood and therefore class. Each subgroup retreats into itself, then expands slightly, seeking more terrain; neither the Canadian nor the Bulgarian fit into any subgroup, and they keep their eyes down, their elbows firmly on their armrests.
More shrieking occurs, and some kickboxing, and a small amount of Tae Kwon Do. It is the Belgians who have the first idea for a way to diminish the tension and pass the time: a congress followed by a pageant. Eyes are rolled, but all subsequent ideas are worse. Delegates are nominated, gather in the bookstore a4d hammer out agreements, square yardage assigned per capita, dotted borders drawn in masking tape. Magazines are shoplifted, and the bookstore manager flutters.
The pageant: middle-class locals drag the statue to one side, and each subgroup pools its makeup and clothes and advice. The women dress in the restrooms, fight for mirror-space, angles and light. Improvised sashes, Swiss judges, an Italian emcee; the vast gifts of the girl from Ghana deafen the crowd, swing each decision, and even so the Venezuelans protest.
Lunch is worrisome: restaurant prices have trebled and there is no ham to be found. Afterwards, children remove toys from bags. The boys have plastic soldiers, the girls have Barbie dolls, and they all play together at war. The dolls wear stiletto heels, are ten times the size of the soldiers, leave death and destruction in their wakes.
There is a new phenomenon, light seeming to sift through the fog that now appears thinner, striped, not entirely sure. The loudspeaker voice announces that the flight will be departing momentarily. The pilot and crew stride again into the lounge, they nod and wave, and applause floods the air. Magazines are stowed and carry-ons are hefted, hands are shaken, and a line forms. The line lengthens, and yet there is no cutting in. The line arcs and straightens. The boarding-gate door is opened, then closed.
An upper-middle-class local child points out the window. The fog has thickened, darkened, grown more assured.
The pilot and crew stride again out of the lounge, and they do not nod, and they do not wave. The loudspeaker voice announces that the flight will be delayed momentarily. The subgroups sulk back to their territories. Children poke each other and cry.
An hour passes this way, and another hour, and another. The bookstore manager aligns his paperbacks. The fog surges, stalls, surges. The Mongolian boy comes to the accountant, asks what is in his briefcase, says that he hopes to be an accountant when he grows up, or else a matador, and then his mother calls and he runs away.
The old woman from Honduras champs and sighs and dreams of a pageant she once won, a pageant that never occurred, but it was wonderful, wonderful; she waved to the throng, thanked her father for his unwavering support, and the poet turns to the accountant.
"Would you happen to know - " "No." "I was only wondering - " "It doesn't matter. The answer is no." The Bulgarian shrugs, Afghanistan's longest river goes unnamed,
and there is an explosion not far away; children fall and parents stumble, the lounge windows crack, ceiling tiles pinwheel through the air and dust pours into the wing, the lights go out and the televisions fall dark, there is shouting and screaming and hands clawing at necks and eyes.
Then there is the hum and grind of generators, and the electricity returns, and the passengers go still.
The loudspeaker voice requests that all available security guards and cleaning staff report immediately to their respective central work stations. Airline personnel run in medium-sized circles. The passengers gather around the televisions that clatter and spark. They wait and wait and at last the answer comes: a small meteor has hit the main lobby.
It is not easy to believe, but the images are undeniable. Delegates meet at the boarding gate and reach no conclusions. Children kick one another. Restaurants run short of lettuce. And now the airline personnel assure the passengers that there
is no reason to panic, that while the number of dead and wounded is not yet known, there is no structural damage to Wing D, and the plane and runway and control tower are wholly intact, and it is therefore only a question of the fog lifting and then the flight will be on its way.
Passengers wander out to see the meteor and damage, are met by armed guards and partitioning, wander back. The Honduran woman finds a large fuchsia bug crawling up her pant leg; it has nine eyes and twenty-two legs, reminds her of her mother's flower garden, and she squashes it with her fist. Bars run short of swizzle sticks, and then, improbably, gin.
The fog scurls. Toilets clog and garbage cans overflow. Darkness drops, the generators growl and fail, and the airline personnel regret that no additional blankets are available. The subgroups gather into themselves. The girl from Ghana dreams the roar of a thousand fontomfrom drums while across the lounge the accountant fights through a nightmare involving misconstrued negative amortization schedules.
In the morning there is still no electricity, and the subgroups curse and pace. There are accusations of theft - missing magazines, missing mints. The fog slackens, then stiffens, and at the masking-tape borders there are dark suggestions, darker looks.
The local delegates gather in a sloppy oval, announce that they have had enough, that they are going home, that they will break down the door if necessary, will walk across the tarmac and scale any fence and be free. The airline personnel insist that the flight will be departing at any moment. The locals gather their things. The airline personnel take a stand at the boarding gate. The locals push them aside, then hesitate: lined outside the door are a dozen armed soldiers standing shadowed and gray in the fog.
The locals look at the airline personnel. The airline personnel shrug and say that they have no idea either. The locals set down their things, gather again. The soldiers grimace and strut. The airline personnel wave the unit captain up to the glass, and words are passed, and the words are diffuse, something about a quarantine, but its cause is unclear: the word "virus" is heard, but what came before? AIDS? Space?
The locals froth. An hour passes angrily. The fog lifts eight inches. drops back down. The Bulgarian rereads an old poem in his notebook, contemplates adding an adverb, and the Belgians have another idea: an Olympiad.
Enough already, say the Dutch. And yet no better idea is brought forward. Judges are appointed, and passengers who belong to no subgroup are assigned to one now created: Other. A program is drawn up on stationery bought by the Saudis; the Americans want baseball, the Russians want volleyball, the Chinese want table tennis, and all are disappointed. The upper-lower-middle-class locals suggest that children ride their parents for the equestrian events. Synchronized swimming is exchanged for synchronized walking; water polo becomes carpet polo, and archery is replaced with Throw the Ball of Paper into the Garbage Can from Increasingly Great Distances. Winter events are ignored until the Norwegians threaten to boycott; then babies in strollers are called bobsledders, and curling is given pride of place and time.
Hog lines are drawn in chalk, brooms are taken from closets, wheeled carry-on bags replace rocks, and the Scottish skip's hammer is a double takeout draw for the gold. Next comes fencing, a question of umbrellas; then rowing occurs with baggage carts and mops, and the Australian coxless four is untouchable.
Dressage is won by a Chilean toddler when the Mongolian boy's father hashes a last-minute piaffe. Kenyans of course sweep the marathon, hours of quick circling; Cubans of course sweep the boxing. A Turk and a Greek meet in judo, half-middleweight the only division: the Greek has mastered the body drop, the naked strangle, and the inner thigh, but the Turk has mastered the sweeping hip, the scarf hold, and both the major inner and major outer reaps, thereby carrying the day and declaring the Cyprus question settled.
The Latvians are accused of doping, the Nigerians of bribery. A tenor from Surinam sings so that rhythmic gymnastics might flourish. Again there is a small amount of Tae Kwon Do, the lower-upper-upper-class locals upsetting the Koreans to everyone's moderate surprise.
The members of Other are the Canadian, the Bulgarian, five stout young women who are not willing to say where they are from, an Orthodox priest from Ukraine, and a lawyer from Pakistan. They consistently come in fourth. The Canadian apologizes for his failure to hurdle more deftly, and his teammates tell him not to worry as long as he did his best, which they are sure he did.
The girl from Ghana blows him a kiss from the long jump pit, and the fog brindles and shies. The competition lasts until nightfall the following day. The medal ceremony is light-hearted yet dignified, and the medals donated by Duty Free are foil-wrapped chocolate coins that gleam in the low, gray light.

</file>

