<file= AmE06_P01>

Prologue

Only three people were left under the red and white awning of the grease joint: Grady, me, and the fry cook. Grady and I sat at a battered wooden table, each facing a burger on a dented tin plate. The cook was behind the counter, scraping his griddle with the edge of a spatula. He had turned off the fryer some time ago, but the odor of grease lingered.

The rest of the midway - so recently writhing with people - was empty but for a handful of employees and a small group of men waiting to be led to the cooch tent. They glanced nervously from side to side, with hats pulled low and hands thrust deep in their pockets. They wouldn't be disappointed: somewhere in the back Barbara and her ample charms awaited.

The other townsfolk - rubes, as Uncle Al called them - had already made their way through the menagerie tent and into the big top, which pulsed with frenetic music. The band was whipping through its repertoire at the usual earsplitting volume. I knew the routine by heart - at this very moment, the tail end of the Grand Spectacle was exiting and Lottie, the aerialist, was ascending her rigging in the center ring.

I stared at Grady, trying to process what he was saying. He glanced around and leaned in closer.

"Besides," he said, locking eyes with me, "it seems to me you've got a lot to lose right now." He raised his eyebrows for emphasis. My heart skipped a beat.

Thunderous applause exploded from the big top, and the band slid seamlessly into the Gounod waltz. I turned instinctively toward the menagerie because this was the cue for the elephant act. Marlena was either preparing to mount or was already sitting on Rosie's head.

"I've got to go," I said.

"Sit," said Grady. "Eat. If you're thinking of clearing out, it may be a while before you see food again."

That moment, the music screeched to a halt. There was an ungodly collision of brass, reed, and percussion - trombones and piccolos skidded into cacophony, a tuba farted, and the hollow clang of a cymbal wavered out of the big top, over our heads and into oblivion.

Grady froze, crouched over his burger with his pinkies extended and lips spread wide.

I looked from side to side. No one moved a muscle - all eyes were directed at the big top. A few wisps of hay swirled lazily across the hard dirt.

"What is it? What's going on?" I said.

"Shh," Grady hissed.

The band started up again, playing "Stars and Stripes Forever."

"Oh Christ. Oh shit!" Grady tossed his food onto the table and leapt up, knocking over the bench.

"What? What is it?" I yelled, because he was already running away from me.

"The Disaster March!" he screamed over his shoulder.

I jerked around to the fry cook, who was ripping off his apron. "What the hell's he talking about?"

"The Disaster March," he said, wrestling the apron over his head. "Means something's gone bad - real bad."

"Like what?"

"Could be anything - fire in the big top, stampede, whatever. Aw sweet Jesus. The poor rubes probably don't even know it yet." He ducked under the hinged door and took off.

Chaos - candy butchers vaulting over counters, workmen staggering out from under tent flaps, roustabouts racing headlong across the lot. Anyone and everyone associated with the Benzini Brothers Most Spectacular Show on Earth barreled toward the big top.

Diamond Joe passed me at the human equivalent of a full gallop. "Jacob - it's the menagerie," he screamed. "The animals are loose. Go, go, go!"

He didn't need to tell me twice. Marlena was in that tent.

A rumble coursed through me as I approached, and it scared the hell out of me because it was on a register lower than noise. The ground was vibrating.

I staggered inside and met a wall of yak - a great expanse of curly-haired chest and churning hooves, of flared red nostrils and spinning eyes. It galloped past so close I leapt backward on tiptoe, flush with the canvas to avoid being impaled on one of its crooked horns. A terrified hyena clung to its shoulders.

The concession stand in the center of the tent had been flattened, and in its place was a roiling mass of spots and stripes - of haunches, heels, tails, and claws, all of it roaring, screeching, bellowing, or whinnying. A polar bear towered above it all, slashing blindly with skillet-sized paws. It made contact with a llama and knocked it flat - BOOM. The llama hit the ground, its neck and legs splayed like the five points of a star. Chimps screamed and chattered, swinging on ropes to stay above the cats. A wild-eyed zebra zigzagged too close to a crouching lion, who swiped, missed, and darted away, his belly close to the ground.

My eyes swept the tent, desperate to find Marlena. Instead I saw a cat slide through the connection leading to the big top - it was a panther, and as its lithe black body disappeared into the canvas tunnel I braced myself. If the rubes didn't know, they were about to find out. It took several seconds to come, but come it did - one prolonged shriek followed by another, and then another, and then the whole place exploded with the thunderous sound of bodies trying to shove past other bodies and off the stands. The band screeched to a halt for a second time, and this time stayed silent. I shut my eyes: Please God let them leave by the back end. Please God don't let them try to come through here.

I opened my eyes again and scanned the menagerie, frantic to find her. How hard can it be to find a girl and an elephant, for Christ's sake?

When I caught sight of her pink sequins, I nearly cried out in relief - maybe I did. I don't remember.

She was on the opposite side, standing against the sidewall, calm as a summer day. Her sequins flashed like liquid diamonds, a shimmering beacon between the multicolored hides. She saw me, too, and held my gaze for what seemed like forever. She was cool, languid. Smiling even. I started pushing my way toward her, but something about her expression stopped me cold.

That son of a bitch was standing with his back to her, red-faced and bellowing, flapping his arms and swinging his silver-tipped cane. His high-topped silk hat lay on the straw beside him.

She reached for something. A giraffe passed between us - its long neck bobbing gracefully even in panic - and when it was gone I saw that she'd picked up an iron stake. She held it loosely, resting its end on the hard dirt. She looked at me again, bemused. Then her gaze shifted to the back of his bare head.

"Oh Jesus," I said, suddenly understanding. I stumbled forward, screaming even though there was no hope of my voice reaching her. "Don't do it! Don't do it!"

She lifted the stake high in the air and brought it down, splitting his head like a watermelon. His pate opened, his eyes grew wide, and his mouth froze into an O. He fell to his knees and then toppled forward into the straw.

I was too stunned to move, even as a young orangutan flung its elastic arms around my legs.

So long ago. So long. But still it haunts me.
I DON'T TALK MUCH about those days. Never did. I don't know why - I worked on circuses for nearly seven years, and if that isn't fodder for conversation, I don't know what is.

Actually I do know why: I never trusted myself. I was afraid I'd let it slip. I knew how important it was to keep her secret, and keep it I did - for the rest of her life, and then beyond.

In seventy years, I've never told a blessed soul.

One

I am ninety. Or ninety-three. One or the other.

When you're five, you know your age down to the month. Even in your twenties you know how old you are. I'm twenty-three, you say, or maybe twenty-seven. But then in your thirties something strange starts to happen. It's a mere hiccup at first, an instant of hesitation. How old are you? Oh, I'm - you start confidently, but then you stop. You were going to say thirty-three, but you're not. You're thirty-five. And then you're bothered, because you wonder if this is the beginning of the end. It is, of course, but it's decades before you admit it.

You start to forget words: they're on the tip of your tongue, but instead of eventually dislodging, they stay there. You go upstairs to fetch something, and by the time you get there you can't remember what it was you were after. You call your child by the names of all your other children and finally the dog before you get to his. Sometimes you forget what day it is. And finally you forget the year.

Actually, it's not so much that I've forgotten. It's more like I've stopped keeping track. We're past the millennium, that much I know - such a fuss and bother over nothing, all those young folks clucking with worry and buying canned food because somebody was too lazy to leave space for four digits instead of two - but that could have been last month or three years ago. And besides, what does it really matter? What's the difference between three weeks or three years or even three decades of mushy peas, tapioca, and Depends undergarments?

I am ninety. Or ninety-three. One or the other.

EITHER THERE'S BEEN an accident or there's roadwork, because a gaggle of old ladies is glued to the window at the end of the hall like children or jailbirds. They're spidery and frail, their hair as fine as mist. Most of them are a good decade younger than me, and this astounds me. Even as your body betrays you, your mind denies it.

I'm parked in the hallway with my walker. I've come a long way since my hip fracture, and thank the Lord for that. For a while it looked like I wouldn't walk again - that's how I got talked into coming here in the first place - but every couple of hours I get up and walk a few steps, and with every day I get a little bit farther before feeling the need to turn around. There may be life in the old dog yet.

There are five of them now, white-headed old things huddled together and pointing crooked fingers at the glass. I wait a while to see if they wander off. They don't.

I glance down, check that my brakes are on, and rise carefully, steadying myself on the wheelchair's arm while making the perilous transfer to the walker. Once I'm squared away, I clutch the gray rubber pads on the arms and shove it forward until my elbows are extended, which turns out to be exactly one floor tile. I drag my left foot forward, make sure it's steady, and then pull the other up beside it. Shove, drag, wait, drag. Shove, drag, wait, drag.

The hallway is long and my feet don't respond the way they used to. It's not Camel's kind of lameness, thank God, but it slows me down nonetheless. Poor old Camel - it's been years since I thought of him. His feet flopped loosely at the end of his legs so he had to lift his knees high and throw them forward. My feet drag, as though they're weighted, and because my back is stooped I end up looking down at my slippers framed by the walker.

It takes a while to get to the end of the hall, but I do - and on my own pins, too. I'm pleased as punch, although once there I realize I still have to find my way back.

They part for me, these old ladies. These are the vital ones, the ones who can either move on their own steam or have friends to wheel them around.

</file>

<file= AmE06_P02>

Chapter One

Flamenco has Ten Commandments. The first one is: Dame la verdad, Give me the truth. The second is: Do it en compas, in time. The third one is: Don't tell outsiders the rest of the commandments. I come here, to the edge of the continent, to honor the first commandment, to give myself the truth.

Waves, sparkling with phosphorescence in the darkness, crash on the shore just beyond my safe square of blanket. I cup my chilly hands around a mug of tea that smells of oranges and clove and search for that first streak of salmon to crack the far horizon. There might be one or two early risers, insomniacs, troubled sleepers, who will see the light of a new day before me. But not many. I am alone with my tea and my thoughts.

The waves roll in all the way from Asia and slam against the shore. Their roar comforts me. It almost drowns out the sound of heels, a dozen, two dozen, pounding on a wooden floor, turning a dance studio into a factory manufacturing rhythm. That is the ocean I hear. It is broadcast by the surge of my own blood, pulsing en compas, in time, to a flamenco beat. My heart beats and its coded rhythms force me to remember.

Once upon a time, I stepped into a story I thought was my own. It was not, though I became a character in it and gave the story all the years it demanded from my life. The story began long before I entered it, long before any of the living and most of the dead entered it.

I start on the night that I saw the greatest flamenco dancer of all time perform. That night I had to decide whose story my life would be about.
Chapter Two

It was early summer in Albuquerque, when the city rests between the sandblasting of spring winds and the bludgeoning of serious summer heat to come. New foliage made a green lace against the sky. The tallest trees were cottonwoods and they spangled tender chartreuse leaves shaped like hearts across the clouds. It was the opening evening of the Flamenco Festival Internacional. A documentary about Carmen Amaya, the greatest flamenco dancer ever, dead now for forty years, was to be premiered at Rodey Theater on the University of New Mexico campus.

I dawdled as I crossed the campus. The air smelled like scorched newspaper. The worst forest fires in half a century had been blazing out of control in the northern part of the state. Four firefighters had already been killed and still the fires moved south. That morning, the Archbishop of Santa Fe announced that he would start saying a novena the next morning to lead all the citizens of New Mexico in prayers for the rain needed to save the state, to save our beloved Tierra del Encanto.

I slowed my pace even more. I wanted to reach the theater after the houselights were out so that I could see as much of Carmen Amaya and as little of "the community" as possible. I dreaded being plunged again into the hothouse world of New Mexico's flamenco scene. Tomorrow, when I started teaching, I would have no choice. Tonight was optional and only the promise of glimpsing the greatest flamenco dancer ever could have dragged me out.

Although we, all us dancers, had studied every detail of Carmen's mythic life, although we had pored over still photos and read descriptions of her technique, none of us had ever seen her dance. Film footage of her dancing was so rare and so expensive that we'd had to content ourselves with listening to the legendary recordings she made with Sabicas. We memorized the sublime hammer of her footwork, but hearing was a poor substitute for seeing a dancer move.

Only the news that the documentary contained footage of Carmen Amaya performing could have gotten me out of my bed and into the shower. The shower had removed the musty odor of rumpled sheets and unwashed hair I'd wrapped myself in for the past several weeks since I'd taken to wearing my own stink as protection, as a way to mark the only territory I had left: myself. I wouldn't have been able to face the humiliation of seeing "the community" at all if I hadn't had my newly acquired secret to lean on.

When I was certain that Rodey Theater would be dark, I slipped in the back and took the first empty seat. Only there, alone and unseen, was it safe to take the secret out and examine it. It strengthened me enough that I corrected my slumped posture. I'd leaned on my new knowledge to get this far; tomorrow, somehow, some way, the secret would guide me to what I needed, what I had to have. Of course, tonight it changed nothing. To everyone in the theater, which was every flamenco dancer, singer, and guitarist in New Mexico, I was still the most pathetic creature imaginable: the third leg of a love triangle.

The credits flickered; then Carmen Amaya's tough Gypsy face filled the screen, momentarily obliterating all thoughts from my mind. It was brutal, devouring, the face of a little bull on a compact body that never grew any larger or curvier than a young boy's. As taut with muscle as a python's, that body had made Carmen Amaya the dancer she was. A title beneath her face noted that the year was 1935. She was only twenty-two, but had been dancing for two decades.

She oscillated in luminous whites and inky blacks, gathering herself in a moment of stillness, a jaguar coiling into itself before exploding. A few chords from an unseen guitarist announced an alegrias, Carmen's famous alegrias. The audience, mostly dancers as avid as I, leaned forward in their seats. Hiding from random gazes, I slumped more deeply into my seat, considered sneaking out. Even armed with my secret, I wasn't strong enough yet for this. There would be questions, condolences, sympathy moistened with a toxic soup of schadenfreude. I wasn't ready to be a cautionary tale, the ultra-pale Anglo girl who'd dared to fly too close to the flamenco sun.

I was pushing out of my seat, about to leave; then Carmen moved.

A clip from one of her early Spanish movies played. The camera crouched low. Her full skirt whirled into roller-coaster arcs that rose and plunged as those bewitched feet hammered more rhythm into the world than any pair of feet before or since. I dropped back into my seat, poleaxed by beauty as Carmen told her people's hard history in the sinuous twine of her hands, the perfectly calibrated arch of her back, the effortless syncopation of her feet.

I tore my eyes from the screen long enough to pick out the profiles of other dancers, girls I'd studied with for years, women who'd instructed us. They were rapt, mesmerized by the jubilant recognition that Carmen Amaya was as good as her legend. No, better. That not only was she the best back then, but if she were dancing today none of us, forty years after her death, could have touched her. I wished then that I were sitting with those other pilgrims who'd made flamenco's long journey, who understood as I did just how good Carmen was.

I joined in the muttered benediction of oles, accent as always on the first syllable, that whispered through the theater; then I surrendered and let Carmen Amaya's heels tap flamenco's intricate Morse code into my brain. Though I had willed it to never do so again, my heart fell back into flamenco time and beat out the pulses with her. Flamenco flowed through my veins once more. From the first, flamenco had been a drug for me, an escape from who I was, as total as any narcotic, and Carmen Amaya hit that vein immediately, obliterating despair, rage, all emotion other than ecstasy at the perfection of her dancing.

The brief clip ended. We all exhaled the held breath and sagged back into our seats. An old-timer, white shirt buttoned up to the top and hanging loosely about a corded neck, no tie, battered, black suit jacket, appeared onscreen. A subtitle informed us that he had once played guitar in Carmen's troupe.

"Tell us about Carmen's family," an interviewer, offscreen, asked.

"Gitana por cuatro costaos," the guitarist answered. "Gypsy on four sides." The translation of this, the ultimate flamenco encomium, made my secret come alive and beat within me. Blood, it was all about blood in flamenco.

The withered guitarist went on. "Carmen Amaya was Gypsy on all four sides. We used to say that she had the blood of the pharaohs in her veins back in the days when we still believed that we Gypsies came from Egypt. We don't believe that anymore, but I still say it. Carmen Amaya had the blood of the pharaohs in her veins. That blood gave her her life, but it also killed her."

"What do you mean?"

"Her kidneys. The doctor called it infantile kidneys. They never grew any bigger than a little baby's. La Capitana only lived as long as she did because she sweated so much when she danced. That was how her body cleansed itself. Otherwise, she would have died when she was a child. Her costumes at the end of a performance? Drenched. You could pour sweat out of her shoes. She had to dance or die."

"Bailar o morir." As the guitar player pronounced the words, his lips stuck on his dentures, tugging them up, holding them rolled under so that he looked like a very sad, very old marionette. "Dance or die. Dancing was the only thing that kept her alive."

"Bailar o morir." He was right. I had to start dancing again. The last few weeks had brought me too close to the alternative. For the first time, I was happy I'd agreed to teach. But that was tomorrow. Tonight, it was essential that I be gone before the lights came up. I glanced at the exit and debated whether I should leave.

When I looked back, though, a clip from one of Carmen's glitzy Hollywood movies was playing. I settled into my seat; I would risk a few more scenes. Carmen was dancing in a nightclub in New York. She wore a short, cabin boy-style jacket and high-waisted white pants that jiggled about her legs as she pounded the wooden floor, creating an entire steel band's worth of percussion.

"Before Carmen Amaya," a narrator intoned, "flamenco dance was a languid, matronly twining of arms, legs rooted to the earth like oaks. Eighty years ago, Amaya's father, El Chino, put her in pants and Carmen broke the spell that had frozen the lower half of las bailaoras' bodies for all of flamenco's history."

The narrator pronounced bailadoras the cool Gypsy way, bailaoras. To show that we were insiders, we did the same, using Gypsy spelling and pronunciation whenever we could. Dancer, bailadora, became bailaora; guitarist, tocador, turned into tocaor; and once we'd gobbled the "d" in cantador, singer, it emerged as cantaor.

The guitarist returned and stated unequivocally, "She never rehearsed. Never, never, never." Nunca, nunca, nunca.

The other dancers in the theater snorted at that statement. We knew how ridiculous it was. It was like boasting about a Chinese child never rehearsing before speaking Chinese. We knew better. We'd read the biographies. Like all good Gypsy mothers, Carmen's had clapped palmas on her belly while she was pregnant so that her baby would be marinated in flamenco rhythms in utero. Carmen danced before she walked and was performing in cafes in Barcelona by the time she was six years old. As the other dancers leaned their heads together to whisper and laugh, I wished I were sitting with them. We would all share our favorite complaint, the near impossibility of a payo, a non-Gypsy, ever being truly accepted in flamenco.

</file>

<file= AmE06_P03>

She'd been all over town in search
of one she liked, but she hadn't found it. There
had to be something suitable in the stacks of bed
linens in the Wingate attic.
The day after she told Sebastian that she couldn't
see him any longer, she'd taken down her Batten-
berg lace. He'd hated it, and it reminded her too
much of him. She just couldn't look up at it every
night when she went to bed.
It had been three weeks since that day in the
mall when she'd run into Lonny and realized that
she had once again fallen in love with a man who
was incapable of loving her back. And this time
she couldn't even say it was because she'd been
lied to. Sebastian had never loved her, and she'd
known that going in. She just hadn't known she
would fall in love with him.
After the fallout in her mother's backyard,
she'd gone home and crawled into bed for three
days, overdosing on John Hughes and Merchant-
Ivory licks until her friends had staged an inter-
vention.
The good news was, she hadn't reached for a
bottle or a warm body to make herself feel better.
She hadn't even wanted to. The bad news was that
she didn't think she was ever going to get over the
heartache of loving Sebastian Vaughan. It went
too deep in her soul. Was too tangled around her
heart.
Clare opened an old wardrobe and searched
through her ancestor's linens. It was all very lacy
and girly, and after an hour of looking and i nd-
ing nothing, she moved out of the attic and down
the old curving staircase. A voice from the
kitchen stopped her at the bottom of the steps.
Stopped her and shattered her all at once.
"Where's Clare?"
"Sebastian? When did you get here?" Joyce
asked.
"Clare's car's outside. Where is she?"
"Goodness! She's in the attic looking at lace."
Heavy footfalls moved across the tile and the
hardwood loors and Clare's hand shook. She'd
been told he wasn't expected. As she turned, he
walked into the entry and her grasp tightened on
the banister. Her chest got that imploding feeling
again, just as strong as the day she'd stood in Brook-
stone dying inside.
Sebastian walked across the foyer as if the devil
were on his heels, and before she could even think
to move, he was in front of her, his green gaze in-
tense as he stared down into her face. He was so
close, the open edges of her black cardigan touched
the front of his blue dress shirt.
"Clare," he said. One word that sounded a lot
like a caress, then he lowered his mouth and
kissed her.
For several stunned seconds she let him. Let her
soul remember. Let it pour through her and warm
up the lonely places only he could touch. Her heart
seemed to weep and rejoice at the same time, but
before he could take any more from her, she lifted
her hands and pushed him away.
"You look so good to me," he whispered as he
ran his gaze across her face. "I feel alive for the
irst time in weeks."
And he was killing her. All over again. She
looked away before her love for him swamped her
and she started to cry. "What are you doing?" she
asked.
"The last time I saw you, I told you that if you
walked away, I wouldn't come after you. But here
I am." With the warm ingers of one hand, he
brought her gaze back to his. "I'm going to turn
thirty-six in two months, and I'm in love for the
irst time in my life. Since you're the woman I
love, I thought you should know."
She felt everything inside her go real still.
"What?"
"I'm in love with you."
She shook her head. He had to be teasing her.
"It's true. The heart-pounding, steal-your-breath,
crazy-for-one-woman kind of love."
She didn't trust him. "Maybe you just think
you're in love and you'll get over it."
Now it was his turn to shake his head. "I've
spent my life waiting to feel something bigger and
stronger than myself. Something I couldn't ight
or walk away from or control. I've waited all my
life . . ." His voice shook, and he paused to take a
breath. "I've been waiting my whole life for you,
Clare. I love you, and don't tell me I don't."
Clare blinked back the sudden sting in her eyes.
That was the most beautiful thing anyone had
ever said to her. Better than she could make up
herself. "You better not be trying to trick me."
"No tricks. I love you, Clare. I love you and I
want to spend my life with you. I even watched
Pretty in Pink."
"Really?"
"Yes, and I hated every minute of it." He took
her hand. "But I love you, and if it makes you
happy, I'll watch teen licks with you."
"You don't have to watch teen licks with me."
"Thank God." He lifted his free hand and
brushed her hair behind her ear. "I got you some-
thing, but it's out in the car. I didn't think Joyce
would let it in the house."
"What?"
"You said you wanted a husband and children
and a dog. So, I'm here with one very carsick York-
shire terrier puppy and a willingness to work on
the kids part."
Once again he'd looked into her lonely heart and
given her what she'd wanted. Plus a dog. "I don't
have anything to give you."
"I just want you. For the irst time in a long time,
I feel like I'm exactly where I'm supposed to be."
The tears she wasn't even going to try to hide
spilled over the bottom of her lashes. She rose on
her toes and wrapped her arms around his neck. "I
love you."
"Don't cry. I hate crying."
"I know. And shopping. And asking for direc-
tions."
He wrapped his arms around her and squeezed
tight. "I sold my condo and I don't have a place to
live. That's what took me so long to get here once
I decided where I needed to be."
"You're homeless?" she asked into the side of his
neck.
"No. My home is with you." He pressed a kiss to
her temple. "I never understood when my mother
used to say that she'd inally found her home. I
didn't understand how one place could feel any dif-
ferent from another. I do now. You are my home
and I don't ever want to leave."
"Okay."
"Clare." He pulled back and held up a ring. A
princess-cut, four-carat diamond.
"Oh my God!" she gasped. She looked from the
ring to his face.
"Marry me. Please."
Emotion clogged her throat and she nodded. She
was a romance writer, but she couldn't think of one
romantic thing to say besides, "I love you."
"Is that a yes?"
"Yes."
He let out a pent-up breath as if there had ever
been any doubt. "There's one more thing," he said
as he slid the ring onto her inger. "I have an ulte-
rior motive for buying the dog."
The ring was the most beautiful thing she'd ever
seen. She looked up into his face and amended that
to the second most beautiful thing. "Of course you
do." She wiped beneath her eyes. "What is it?"
"In exchange for the girly wussy dog," he said,
humor lifting the corners of his mouth, "no girly
wussy lace on the bed."
Since she'd already put away her lace bedding,
that was an easy compromise. "Anything for you."
She rose on the balls of her feet and kissed Sebas-
tian Vaughan. He was her lover, friend, and very
own romantic hero, proving that sometimes a girl's
worst nightmare turned into her happily ever after.
EPILOGUE
Clare poured a cup of coffee and looked out the
back screen door into her yard. Sebastian stood
in the middle of the lawn wearing nothing but a
pair of beige cargo pants. The morning sun bathed
his chest and face in gold as he pointed across the
yard.
"Get your job done," he said to the Yorkshire
terrier sitting on his bare foot. The dog, Westley - 
named after the hero in The Princess Bride - stood
and walked on short little legs to plop down on
Sebastian's other foot.
Westley loved Sebastian. Followed him around
and worshiped him. For his devotion, most often
than not, he got called Wusstley. But when Sebas-
tian thought no one else was around, he scratched
the dog's small belly and told him he was a "little
stud."
Sebastian had moved into Clare's house two
months ago, and within a week antique pieces had
moved out. Which was ine with Clare. His sofa
and chairs were more comfortable than hers, and
she didn't have a serious attachment to her great-
great-grandfather's gout footstool. The cherub ped-
estal was staying, though.
"Come on now," Sebastian said as he looked
down at Westley. "We can't go back inside until
you get busy."
In May they'd stuck a For Sale sign in the front
yard, and hoped to have the house sold by the time
they married in September. Finding a new home
was proving more dificult than planning a wed-
ding. Melding both their tastes wasn't easy, but they
were determined to compromise and work it out.
Lucy, Maddie, and Adele were happy for Clare
and thrilled to be her bridesmaids, although Adele
and Maddie had made her promise that there
would be no tulle this time.
Sebastian walked several feet across the yard,
and Westley followed close behind. He pointed to
the ground. "This is a good spot." Westley looked
up, barked as if he agreed, then sat on Sebastian's
foot.
Clare smiled and raised the coffee mug to her
lips. She'd met her friends for lunch just the day
before. Lucy was still thinking about starting a
family. Dwayne was still leaving random stuff on
Adele's porch, and Maddie was still planning on
spending the summer at her cabin in Truly. But as
they'd left the restaurant, Maddie had given a hint
that perhaps something was unusual. Well, unusual
for Maddie. With a strange look on her face, she
said, "Digging into other people's sordid pasts is a
whole lot easier than digging into your own."
There were things in Maddie's life. Dark secrets
she'd never shared. If and when she did, her friends
would be there to listen.
Clare opened the screen door and walked out
into the sunlight. "I see you've just about gotten
that dog whipped into shape," she said.
Sebastian put his hands on his hips and looked
up at her. "Your mutt is worthless."
She bent and scooped up the dog. "No, he's not.
He's very good at barking at the mailman."
Sebastian took the mug from her and dropped
his arm around her shoulders. "And imaginary
cats." He took a drink of coffee, then said, "Dad
and I are ishing Saturday. Wanna come along?"
"No thanks." She'd ished with the two of them
once. Once was enough. Worms and ish guts
were something they would never compromise on
or work out.

One of the biggest surprises about Sebastian, be-
sides his attempts at being romantic, was his rela-
tionship with her mother. He didn't take Joyce's
frosty, dictatorial nature personally, nor did he take
any crap from her, and the two got along wonder-
fully. Better than Clare would have ever imagined.
"Once the dog does his business, let's go take a
shower." Sebastian handed her back the coffee and
added, "I'm in the mood to get you soapy."
She set Westley on the ground and rose. "I am
feeling a little dirty." She pressed her lips to his
bare shoulder and smiled. He was always in the
mood, which worked out beautifully because she
was always in the mood for him.

</file>

<file= AmE06_P04>

The words were straightforward, but the baggage that went with them wasn't. She wanted with an extremity that hurt.

"You won't, whether you agree to marry me or not, but I'd like our kids to have my name."

Arrested, she stared at him. Carter and children. The thought made her dizzy.

They had never talked about permanence and kids. She'd always thought it was because Carter didn't want them, now she was beginning to see why the discussion had never taken place. Like a crab hiding in its shell, she'd been too good at protecting herself, too good at hiding her feelings.

She took a deep breath. Moonlight and the sea, and a proposal. She stared at the planes of Carter's face. She felt touched to her core - swept away. "It's hard to take in." Her heart was pounding so hard, she was having difficulty breathing.

"Take as long as you like, I'm not going anywhere. I've resigned. I wanted to give you the papers, but they haven't arrived yet. You won't be an army wife, you'll be marrying a farmer."

She took a deep breath and leaped. "Yes."

For a moment he was utterly still and she wondered if he'd heard her, then he reached into his pocket and brought out a small leather box.

Her mouth went dry. She'd seen the box with its faded gold trim and distinctive jeweller's mark sitting on his dresser shortly after he'd returned from overseas last time.

He opened the lid. Light glimmered on an antique ring with a large diamond at the centre of a cluster of smaller gemstones. Her heart squeezed tight. She recognized the ring, it was the same one worn by his great-great-grandmother in the oil painting in his hallway - a ring that had been worn by every subsequent Rawlings bride of the eldest male child since.

With slow, deliberate movements, he picked up her left hand and slid the ring on the third finger.

In the moonlight the stones gleamed softly. The ring fitted as if it had been made for her. She touched the central diamond with a fingertip, and a warm shiver went through her. It was crazy, but in that moment she felt the whisper of generation upon generation of love and devotion.

A droplet landed on her cheek, then another.

Carter touched his lips to hers. When he lifted his head the moon was blotted out by cloud.

Dazed, Dani registered that the drought had broken; it was raining. Wrapping her arms around his neck, she kissed him back, sinking into Carter's bedrock warmth and strength. Finally, after years of travelling, she'd come home.
Chapter 19

T he day before the wedding, Dani and Becca arrived for a final fitting at Harriet's town house in Mason.

It had been two months since Carter had proposed and almost that long since the mortgage payment had been met and David had moved back into the Galbraith house. With the bank's new refinancing options, David had been able to repair the house, restock the farm and buy a new tractor. He was still stretched financially, and he would be for a while, but Galbraith was finally on an even keel.

Once the drought-breaking rain had started it hadn't stopped. Any fear of another copycat arsonist had been washed away in a deluge of water and bright green growth. They were on the edge of winter, but spring was definitely in the air. Relieved farmers were grinning, kids were happily splashing about in muddy gumboots, and mothers and wives were groaning at the extra laundry. The syndicate that had been buying up properties had folded, causing a minor ripple in the stock market. Carlisle's brokering firm had crashed, and Bainbridge had been removed from the board of directors, his financial activities now under the scrutiny of a special commission for high-level fraud.

At last report, Carlisle was being held on remand without bail, pending trial, and Bainbridge had left the country, tailed by Flynn, who had tracked him to the Caribbean, where he was holed up in an exclusive island resort with a "close friend." Flynn had sold the story to a national daily with a follow-up exposé to a prominent glossy magazine. The massive injection of capital had saved Flynn from imminent bankruptcy, and the Chronicle from oblivion.

Wells, armed with an embarrassing arsenal of facts about Bainbridge meddling with the bank, had exerted pressure on the directors and freed up a number of mortgages, including Tom Stoddard's and the Galbraiths'. The bank hadn't changed its motto, but it was finally starting to live up to it.

Harriet opened the front door and promptly ushered Dani and Becca upstairs to one of the spare rooms, where a designer box lay in state on the bed.

Once she'd agreed to the wedding, Aunt Harriet and Becca had started making arrangements and pulling strings. Harriet had contacts that extended beyond the jewellery business into the world of haute couture. Under Harriet's strict eye, a design was agreed upon and commissioned - and she had insisted on paying for the dress as a wedding gift.

When the white silk gown was shaken out of folds of tissue paper, Dani let out a breath. It was going to be all right.

Minutes later, she stared at her reflection, dazed. The bodice was a sleeveless shell that left her shoulders and arms bare. It fell in a long, elegant line to her feet. Becca fitted the veil and stood back.

For long moments, Dani stared at her reflection in Harriet's full-length mirror. Her hair was in a plait, she wasn't wearing any makeup, but none of that mattered - the dress made her beautiful.

Harriet stared critically at the effect. "We're going to have to cut your hair."

Becca nodded. "And do something with those nails."

"I'm not shortening my hair."

"The length is fine, dear," Harriet said smoothly. "I'll just get Jose to trim the ends and take a little weight out."

"Jose?"

Harriet lifted the curtain and peered out at the front driveway. "He cuts for the best salon in Mason. I think he's just arrived."

Minutes later, back in her own clothes, Dani found herself seated in Harriet's sunny front parlour with Jose - a tall, faintly Asian-looking man - fussing over her hair.

Dani stared at the hairdressing and manicurist's paraphernalia. Between the foil wrap and coveralls, hi-tech headgear and machinery, there was enough equipment to outfit a mission to Mars. Someone should tell NASA. "Do I have to have the nails?"

Becca lifted a brow. "How many times are you planning on getting married?"

Just one.

Dani sat down and gave herself over. "Point taken."

 

The church was full; the bride was late. Carter glanced at his watch.

His best man, Gabriel West, looked relaxed. "It's traditional."

The vicar checked his watch, the organist frowned, taking Carter back to his childhood, when she'd glared at him for singing off-key. He checked his watch again.

 

Ten minutes later, the limousine nosed into the space reserved in front of the church. Pushing the driver's door open, Dani exited the car, not waiting for David to make his way around to open the door. After the interminable wait to have, of all things, a tire changed, she was in no mood to play ladies.

Taking care the hem of the dress didn't get smeared with dirt, Dani strode through the pretty archway that fronted the church and up the cobbled path. Carter was waiting on the steps.

She started up the steps, trying to look composed. "You waited." And until that moment she hadn't known just how frightened she'd been that he wouldn't.

"I wasn't about to let you get away this time."

Carter's fingers closed over hers, pulling her close and a jolt of recognition went through her. His gaze was cool, his jaw set as hard as adamantine. She'd seen that look before: when he'd been fifteen and his horse had broken a leg and Carter had insisted he was the one who had to put Jerry down. Again when he'd been twenty-five and his father had had a serious heart attack and had had to leave the farm. Carter had insisted on buying his parents out, enabling them to have a comfortable stress-free retirement. She knew that expression with the intimacy, the familiarity, of years and the primitive sense of recognition shimmered through her again. She knew him, almost as well as she knew herself - maybe even better. A piercing sweetness moved through her and suddenly she had her moment; the confirmation she had needed.

Carter loved her; he had always loved her. If she hadn't showed, he would have come after her, and he wouldn't have stopped until he'd found her and brought her back. "The car broke down."

"I thought that was my line."

"Not any more." She crossed the fingers of one hand behind her back that this was the last hitch. She'd jumped through enough hoops, all she wanted to do was get married.

David strode up the steps, and handed Dani her bouquet. Clearing his throat, he gave Carter a stern look. "Shouldn't you be in the church?"

With a last cold glance at the limousine, Carter released her and turned on his heel. Dani had the distinct impression that he would prefer to escort her up the aisle himself - just to make sure.

The last of the tension and strain that had marred the morning melted away as Dani lifted the veil over her face, checked her bouquet and placed her hand on Tom's arm. A curious sense of calmness descended on her as they stepped into the vestibule, and the first strains of the "Wedding March" floated out into the warm afternoon air.

 

The wedding reception was held in the Jackson's Ridge community hall, a long low building that was almost as old as the pub and which had originally been an army barracks.

Carter glanced at the copper plaque that outlined the history of the building. "Can't seem to get away from the job."

Harriet reached inside a plastic carry bag and handed Dani a familiar case. "Here's your real wedding gift."

Dani opened the lid. Her grandmother's jewellery was still displayed exactly as she'd placed it. She was willing to bet Harriet hadn't even opened the box; she had simply kept it for her. Moisture blurred her vision. "You said you had a buyer for these."

Both Harriet's eyebrows elevated. "I lied."

David slipped a handkerchief along with an envelope into her hands. "You'd better open this before you leave."

Carefully blotting the tears, she opened the envelope. It contained a legal document. "You can't give me this."

David shrugged. "I'm not, I simply refused to accept your gift of the shares. I know you had some silly belief that Galbraith isn't your home, but I happen to think you're wrong. Galbraith would have gone under the hammer if it wasn't for you."

Dani opened her mouth to argue.

"Don't. I'm not accepting the shares."

Carter caught her gaze. She had no problem reading the miniscule signs of body language and facial expression. It was Carter's wedding and he was on his best behaviour. It was a known fact that he liked to socialize and that he was good at it - but only to a point - and right now he was at the limit of his patience.

His hand landed in the small of her back, and she found herself discreetly hustled to a side door. An elderly lady cut a swathe through the crowd, bent on waylaying him. With a deft movement, he dipped his head and kissed her, staving off the interruption.

Long seconds later he murmured in her ear. "Let's get out of here. How about a chartered flight to a Pacific Island and two weeks at a secluded beach resort with no guns, no night-vision gear, no arsonists and no ostriches?"

Dani grinned and let Carter lead her out into the night. How was she supposed to resist that?

</file>

<file= AmE06_P05>

He wanted to marry her.
He just didn't think he could live with his conscience if he did.
"Are you quite all right?" Colin asked.
Michael blinked. "Perfectly so, why?"
Colin's head tilted slightly to the side. "For a moment there, you looked ... " He gave his head a shake. "It's nothing."
"What, Bridgerton?" Michael nearly snapped.
"Surprised," Colin said. "You looked rather surprised. Bit odd, I thought."
Dear God, one more moment with Colin Bridgerton, and the bloody bastard would have all of Michael's se­crets laid open and bare. Michael pushed his chair back. "I need to be going," he said abruptly.
"Of course," Colin said genially, as if their entire con­versation had consisted of horses and the weather.
Michael stood, then gave a curt nod. It wasn't a terribly warm farewell, considering that they were relations of a sort, but it was the best he could do under the circum­stances.
"Think about what I said," Colin murmured, just when Michael had reached the door.
Michael let out a harsh laugh as he pushed through the door and into the hall. As if he'd be able to think about anything else.
For the rest of his life.
Chapter 13
 ...  all at home is pleasant and well, and Kilmartin thrives under Francesca's careful stew­ardship. She continues to mourn John, but then of course, so do we all, as, I'm sure, do you. You might consider writing to her di­rectly. I know that she misses you. I do pass along all of your tales, but I am certain you would relate them to her in a different fash­ion than you do to your mother.
 - from Helen Stirling to her son, the Earl of Kilmartin, two years after his departure for India 
The rest of the week passed in a supremely annoying blur of flowers, candy, and one appalling display of poetry, re­cited aloud, Michael recalled with a shudder, on his front steps.
Francesca, it seemed, was putting all the fresh-faced debutantes to shame. The number of men vying for her hand might not have been doubling every day, but it cer­tainly felt like it to Michael, who was constantly tripping over some lovesick swain in the hall.
It was enough to make a man want to vomit. Preferably on the lovesick swain.
Of course he had his admirers as well, but as it was not suitable for a lady to call upon a gentleman, he generally only had to deal with them when he chose to do so, and not when they took it upon themselves to stop by unan­nounced and for no apparent reason other than to compare his eyes to - 
Well, to whatever one would compare your average gray eyes. It was a stupid analogy, anyway, although Michael had been forced to listen to more than one man rhapsodize over Francesca's eyes.
Good God, didn't any of them have an original thought in his head? Forget that everyone made mention of her eyes; at the very least one of them could have had the cre­ativity to compare them to something other than the wa­ter or the sky.
Michael snorted with disgust. Anyone who took the time to really look at Francesca's eyes would have real­ized that they were quite their own color.
As if the sky could even compare.
Furthermore, Francesca's nauseating parade of suitors was made all the more difficult to bear by Michael's com­plete inability to stop thinking about his recent conversa­tion with her brother.
Marriage to Francesca? He had never even let himself think about such a notion.
But now it gripped him with a fervor and intensity that left him reeling.
Marriage to Francesca. Good God. Everything about it was wrong.
Except he wanted it so badly.
It was hell watching her, hell speaking to her, hell living in the same house. He'd thought it was difficult before - loving someone who could never be his - but this ... 
This was a thousand times worse.
Colin knew.
He had to know. Why would he have suggested it if he didn't?
Michael had held on to his sanity all these years for one reason and one reason only: No one knew he was in love with Francesca.
Except, apparently, he was to be denied even that last shred of dignity.
But now Colin knew, or at least he damn well sus­pected, and Michael couldn't quite quash this rising sense of panic within his chest.
Colin knew, and Michael was going to have to do something about it.
Dear God, what if he told Francesca? That question was foremost in his mind, even now, as he stood slightly off to the side at the Burwick ball, nearly a week after his momentous meeting with Colin.
"She looks beautiful tonight, doesn't she?"
It was his mother's voice at his ear; he had forgotten to pretend that he wasn't watching Francesca. He turned to Helen and gave her a little bow. "Mother," he murmured.
"Doesn't she?" Helen persisted.
"Of course," he agreed, quickly enough so she might think he was just being polite.
"Green suits her."
Everything suited Francesca, but he wasn't about to tell his mother that, so he just nodded and made a mur­mur of agreement.
"You should dance with her."
"I'm sure I will," he said, taking a sip of his cham­pagne. He wanted to march across the ballroom and forcibly remove her from her annoying little crowd of ad­mirers, but he couldn't very well show such emotion in front of his mother. So he concluded with, "After I finish my drink."
Helen pursed her lips. "Her dance card will surely be filled by then. You should go now."                 
He turned to his mother and smiled, just the sort of dev­ilish grin designed to take her mind off of whatever it was that had her so fixated. "Now why would I do that," he queried, setting his champagne flute down on a nearby table, "when I can dance with you instead?"
"You rascal," Helen said, but she didn't protest when he led her out on the floor.
Michael knew he'd pay for this tomorrow; already the society matrons were circling him for the kill, and there was nothing they liked better than a rake who doted upon his mother.
The dance was a lively one, which didn't allow for much conversation. And as he twisted and turned, dipped and bowed, he kept catching glances of Francesca, radi­ant in her emerald gown. No one seemed to notice that he was watching her, which suited him just fine, except that as the music reached its penultimate crescendo, Michael was forced to make one final turn away from her.
And when he turned back to face her again, she was gone.
He frowned. That didn't seem right. He supposed she could have darted out to the ladies' retiring room, but, pa­thetic fool that he was, he'd been watching her closely enough that he knew that she had done that just twenty minutes earlier.
He completed his dance with his mother, bade her farewell, then ambled casually over to the north side of the room, where he'd last seen Francesca. He had to move quickly, lest someone tried to waylay him. But he kept his ears open as he moved through the crowds. No one, however, seemed to be speaking of her.
When he reached her previous location, however, he noticed French doors, presumably to the back garden. They were curtained and closed, of course; it was only April, and not warm enough to be letting the night air in, even with a crowd of three hundred heating up the room. Michael was instantly suspicious; he'd lured too many women out to gardens himself not to be aware of what could happen in the dark of the night.
He slipped outside, making his exit unobtrusive. If Francesca was indeed out in the back garden with a gen­tleman, the last thing he wanted was a crowd trailing in his wake.
The rumble of the party seemed to pulsate through the glass doors, but even with that, the night felt quiet.
Then he heard her voice.
And it sliced his gut.
She sounded happy, he realized, more than content to be in the company of whatever man had lured her out into the dark. Michael couldn't make out her words, but she was definitely laughing. It was a musical, tinkling sound, and it ended in a soul-searing, flirtatious murmur.
Michael put his hand back on the knob. He should leave. She wouldn't want him here.
But he was rooted to the spot.
He'd never - ever - spied on her with John. Not once had he listened in on a conversation that wasn't meant to include him. If he stumbled within earshot, he had always removed himself immediately. But now - it was different. He couldn't explain it, but it was different, and he could not force himself to leave.
One more minute, he swore to himself. That was all. One more minute to assure that she was not in a danger­ous situation, and - 
"No, no."
Francesca's voice.
His ears pricked up and he took a few steps in the di­rection of her voice. She didn't sound upset, but she was saying no. Of course, she could be laughing about a joke, or maybe some inane piece of gossip.
"I really must - No!"
And that was all it took for Michael to move.
Francesca knew that she shouldn't have come outside with Sir Geoffrey Fowler, but he had been polite and charming, and she was feeling a trifle warm in the crowded ballroom. It was the sort of thing she'd never have done as an unmarried debutante, but widows weren't held to quite the same standards, and besides, Sir Geof­frey had said that he would leave the door ajar.
All had been perfectly pleasant for the first few min­utes. Sir Geoffrey made her laugh, and he made her feel beautiful, and it was almost heartbreaking to realize how much she'd missed that. And so she had laughed and flirted, and allowed herself to melt into the moment. She wanted to feel like a woman again - maybe not in the fullest sense of the word, but still, was it so wrong to enjoy the heady intoxication of knowing that she was desired?
Maybe they were all after her now infamous double dowry, maybe they wanted the alignment with two of Britain's most notable families - Francesca was both a Bridgerton and a Stirling, after all. But for one lovely evening, she was going to let herself believe it was all about her.
But then Sir Geoffrey had moved closer. Francesca had backed up as discreetly as she was able, but he took an­other step in her direction, and then another, and before she knew it, her back was against a fat-trunked tree, and Sir Geoffrey's hands were planted against the bark, each uncomfortably close to her head.
"Sir Geoffrey," Francesca said, endeavoring to remain polite as long as she possibly could, "I'm afraid there has been a misunderstanding. I believe I would like to return to the party." She kept her voice light and friendly, not wishing to provoke him into something she would regret.
His head dipped an inch closer to hers. "Now, why would you want to do that?" he murmured.
"No, no," she said, ducking to the side as he came in closer, "people will be missing me." Dash it all, she was going to have to stamp on his foot, or worse, unman him in the manner her brothers had taught her back when she was a green girl. "Sir Geoffrey," she said, trying one last time for civility, "I really must - "
And then his mouth, wet and mushy and entirely unwelcome, landed on hers.
" - No!" she managed to squeal.
But he was quite determined to mash her with his lips. Francesca twisted this way and that, but he was stronger than she had realized, and he clearly had no intention of letting her escape. Still struggling, she maneuvered her leg so that she might jam her knee up into his groin, but before she could do that, Sir Geoffrey seemed to ...  quite simply ...  disappear.

</file>

<file= AmE06_P06>

When Peel is con-
firmed as Prime Minister, he's going to offer to
give you back your ambassadorship and send
you to Constantinople to patch things up. He's
sure the king will agree to the appointment."
They wanted him back. Never in his profes-
sional career had Ian ever felt a sweeter moment
of triumph than he did right now. He closed his
eyes for a moment, savoring it, allowing the satis-
faction of it to sink in.
Just then, a commotion was heard out in the
corridor.
"Where is Sir Ian?" bellowed a deep, male, un-
mistakably Italian voice. "Is he with Lord Stan-
ton? Are they in here?"
"Your Highness, if you will - "
"Out of my path." The door opened and Prince
Cesare came striding into the room, followed by
Stanton's clerk, a very embarrassed-looking
Count Trevani, and a pair of Cesare's guards.
Ian and Stanton both rose at once and bowed.
"Your Highness," Ian greeted his father-in-law
with cool civility and nothing more. He glanced
past Cesare, Count Trevani, and the guards, but
he did not see Lucia. "Have you finished your
visit with my wife?"
"Visit?" Cesare spat the word at him. "Is that
what you call it?"
By now, Ian figured he ought have some un-
derstanding of the Italians, but he didn't. They
still had the power to confound him. "I beg your
pardon?"
Cesare's face flushed with rage. "Never in her
life has Lucia asked me for anything. Always
when I see her, she puts her chin up, so, and
looks ready to spit in my face. But not when she
comes on your behalf. No! For you, she asks for
favors. For you, she goes down on her knees. A
daughter of my blood on her knees?" His voice
rose to a shout. "It is unpardonable that you send
her to beg for you!"
"What?" Ian did not need to feign his aston-
ishment. Lucia on her knees to her father? It
wasn't possible. "Your Highness, I have no idea
what you are talking about. You summoned - "
"Hah!" Cesare raked his gaze over Ian with
venom. "She wrote the letter asking to see me,
but I am not fooled." He pointed an accusing fin-
ger at Ian. "You sent her to me. Get him back his
profession, she says. Please, Papa, talk to his gov-
ernment, she says. I want him to be happy, she
says! Happy?" Prince Cesare slapped the back of
one hand against the palm of the other three
times in rapid succession. "I ask her what right
has he to be happy after what he did, and she
says what happened was all her fault! What have
you made her, Englishman, that she comes so to
me and takes the blame for your dishonor? Did
you make her say these things? She says no, but I
think, yes!"
Ian stared at the prince, and as he understood
just what had happened and what Lucia had
done, he realized William was right. There were
times when everything in life fell perfectly into
place. The aimless lethargy that had been haunt-
ing him for weeks vanished, and in its place was
something else. A feeling of coming home. He
knew who he was and what he wanted and
where he belonged. He stepped around Cesare
and walked to the door.
"I am not finished!" Cesare roared, turning.
"Where are you going?"
Ian paused and looked at Stanton. "Well, I'm
bloody well not going to Anatolia." With that, he
walked out the door, leaving William to the un-
enviable job of international diplomacy. He had
far more important work to do.
Lucia went into the library at Portman Square
and sat in her favorite place on the desk, remem-
bering the times she and Ian had sat here talking
in the wee small hours. She wondered how long
it would be before they sent him to Constantino-
ple, or some other place. He'd come home some-
times, she reminded herself, but that wasn't much
consolation. The only thing that comforted her
was knowing Ian would soon have his life back
the way he wanted it.
At first, Cesare had refused to grant her re-
quest. She should have known even begging on
her knees wouldn't move him. She had been
forced to use blackmail, and she was relieved he
had complied, for she couldn't really have writ-
ten her memoirs for the scandal sheets. Ian
wouldn't have liked it.
A home without a husband beside her wasn't
what she had envisioned for herself, but that was
the way it had to be. For her, a home and a family
were enough for happiness, but she had fallen in
love with a man for whom those things would
never be enough. Perhaps that was because he did
not love her in return. Though he had done the
honorable thing and married her, love had not
been his reason for doing so. Nonetheless, he had
given her a home, a place in the world. Now, she
had given him back his purpose, and he would be
himself again. That was all she wanted.
She imagined him sitting in the chair as she
had seen him so many times. The night he'd told
her about his first love. How they'd gotten drunk,
and she'd told him about her past.
"I love you," she said as if he was sitting there.
"I hope the Turks don't give you too much trou-
ble. Just - " She caught back a sob. "Just remem-
ber not to show your emotions, and you'll keep
the upper hand."
"Don't cry."
She lifted her head and turned to see him
standing in the doorway. Only when he blurred
before her eyes did she realize what he'd said.
"I'm not crying," she said, then immediately bit
her lip and had to turn her face away.
"Liar."
She stared at his chair, blinking back tears.
She'd hoped for more time before he came back
from Whitehall. Time to compose herself. But it
was too late. Now she was unraveling, and he'd
see it. Being so honorable, he'd feel guilty about
going away.
He walked around in front of her, put a hand
under her chin, and tilted her head back to look
at her. "Lucia, what have you done?"
He knew.
"I suppose Cesare told you." She scowled
through tears. "I asked him not to, but I should
have known he wouldn't listen. Damn him."
"He burst into Stanton's offices in a fury, shout-
ing at the top of his lungs, blathering about how
you came and begged him to help me get my job
back." His hands slid down her arms. "Wife, I
don't know whether to kiss you or shake you.
When I think of what it must have cost you to go
to him - " He broke off and his hands tightened
on her arms. "Why did you do it? Why?"
"I love you. I had to give you back what I took
from you."
He pulled her off the desk and kissed her hard.
"Don't ever do anything like that again," he or-
dered. "I mean it. Don't ever sacrifice your pride
for me or anyone else!"
"Well, it's done now." She swallowed hard and
stared at the perfect knot of his cravat. "So when
do you leave for Anatolia?"
"I'm not going to Anatolia."
"You're not?" She lifted her face. "Where are
you going?"
Ian wrapped his arms around her waist. "Dev-
onshire."
Lucia's heart gave a leap, and she was terribly
afraid she'd misunderstood. "What do you
mean?"
"I'm saying I turned them down. Told them
no."
"You did? But why? Your work is everything to
you. If you do not have your work, what will you
do?"
He pretended to think it over. "Arrange mar-
riages, perhaps? I'm getting rather good at that, I
think." He tightened his arms around her waist.
"By the way, I've been to see your mother."
Lucia blinked at the abrupt change of subject.
"You went to see Mamma?"
"Yes. I called on her after I left Whitehall. It
was a diplomatic assignment to arrange her mar-
riage to Lord Chesterfield."
"What?" Lucia was becoming more astonished
by the moment. "Mamma will never marry Ches-
terfield. She told me so."
Ian kissed her nose. "That's why I'm the diplo-
mat, my dear, and you're not. I have gotten both
parties to come to terms, and the wedding is in
December. I had to do it, so I hope you don't
mind. After all, I couldn't possibly stand for Par-
liament if my mother-in-law is a courtesan. I'd
never get the votes."
"You're going to be in Parliament? You would
rather do that than be an ambassador?"
"I told you I wouldn't drag a wife and children
all over the world. Don't you remember?"
"You said it wouldn't be right," she choked. "But
you didn't marry me by choice, so I thought - "
"So you thought I'd just go off and resume my
old life without you?"
"I thought returning to your profession would
make you happy. I thought it's want you wanted."
"You're what I want. How could leaving you
ever make me happy?" He cupped her face in his
hands. "Do you remember the day of our picnic,
and how you said I had this strange look on my
face?"
"Yes."
"That was the moment I realized how much I
need you, need you more than anything else, in-
cluding my career."
"Oh, Ian!" she cried, afraid to believe it. "I don't
want you to ever regret that you married me."
He smiled, and his fingertips caressed her
cheeks. "Regret it? How could I?" You are my
passionate Italian wife. You are the woman who
is going to give me children and whose bed I in-
tend to sleep in every night. You're the reason I'll
wake up every morning with a smile on my face.
I love you, I will be in love with you every day of
my life, and the only day I'm leaving you is the
day they put me in the ground."
He loved her. He wasn't leaving. Joy welled up
inside Lucia, flooding up and spilling over until
she couldn't contain it. She began to laugh and
cry at once.
"Here we go again." He pulled a handkerchief
out of his pocket and handed it to her.
"You turned them down," she said, her voice
muffled by his handkerchief. "For me."
"Damned right. Why should I settle for being
a mere ambassador when I can be treated like a
king? I believe that was what you promised your
husband, wasn't it?"
"Yes." Lucia tossed his handkerchief aside and
wrapped her arms around his neck. "Does that
mean I'm truly royal now?"
"You? My dear, you may be Prince Cesare's
daughter, but you're no princess. Most of the time,
you're a blight on my sanity." His arms tightened
around her. "By the way, there's one thing I want
to know."
She raked a hand through his hair, messing it
up with a sigh of pure contentment. "What?"
"Did you let me win that chess game on pur-
pose?" He pulled back and looked at her. "Did
you?"
Lucia opened her eyes very wide. "Of course,"
she said. Deliberately, she bit her lip.
He laughed, his arms tightening around her
again. "I want a rematch."
"All right." She paused with a wicked smile.
"On one condition."
"No. The condition was that I teach you to play
billiards, and I did. No more conditions."
"You'll like this one."
"I liked the last one. Too much if I recall." His
mouth curved up at one corner. "So what is this
new condition I'm going to like?"
"That you take me upstairs right now and start
treating me like a queen."
Ian didn't need to be told twice. "Yes, Your
Highness," he said, lifted her into his arms, and
headed for the door.

</file>

<file= AmE06_P07>

She closed the door quietly behind her and walked
down the hall to the Duke's Chamber. As Robert's gov­
erness, it was incumbent upon her to ensure that his
manners were perfect for this evening. Perhaps a little
conversation before they descended to the dining room
wouldn't be amiss.
Her knock wasn't answered. Slowly, she turned the
handle and pushed the door ajar. The room was empty.
Hopefully, Robert had gone down to dinner early and
was not hiding somewhere. She really didn't have the
energy to find him.
Halfway down the staircase, she gestured to a maid
just as the girl was sliding behind a hidden panel.
"Where is the dining room?"
"On the first floor, the third room in the east wing."
She bobbed a curtsy and disappeared from sight,
much as Beatrice would like to do. The directions were
sparse, but she finally found the room.
Unlike the area where they'd eaten breakfast, the for­
mal dining room at Castle Crannoch was a monument
to the family's history. There were claymores, shields,
tartans, and banners hanging from the ceiling and the
wall, interspersed with hunting pictures and portraits of
dogs and horses. It was the most fantastic juxtaposition
of really bad art she'd ever seen in her entire life.
To her relief, Robert was already seated at the table.
Not at the head of it, but to his uncle's left. Rowena was
on Cameron's right. Another place was set far down on
the left side of the table, far enough to be considered an
insult. She took her place without comment, nodding to
the family. The only response she received was Robert's
smile.
Dinner was a strange affair. Robert was in rare form,
finding the silliest things about which to giggle. Other­
wise, however, the young duke minded his manners
without being prompted to do so.
Rowena Gordon ignored her for the entire meal.
Whenever Cameron addressed a remark in her direc­
tion, Rowena affected to study the sconce on the far
wall, no doubt measuring the length and width of the
candle since the last time she had done so.
Was Rowena Gordon jealous of every female at Cas­
tle Crannoch? Was it simply because Beatrice was new
or that she'd been hired without Rowena's consent?
"Were you in London long, Mrs. Gordon?" she
asked.
Once again, Rowena studied the sconce. Was she go­
ing to answer her? Or simply ignore her again? Equal
parts of embarrassment and irritation made Beatrice
wish she hadn't asked.
"Not long, no. But long enough, perhaps."
"Two months, Miss Sinclair," Cameron said.
"Did you find London to your liking?"
"I enjoyed it as well as I was able, being separated
from my husband."
"They say that sooner or later the entire world goes
to London."
"Do they?" Rowena smiled absently, in that exasper­
ating way beautiful women do, as if they could not be
bothered to curve their lips. Perhaps the effort was too
exhausting, and they needed to save their energy for
flirtatious glances and fanning themselves.
She should not be so intent upon initiating a conver­
sation with the other woman. Yet, politeness dictated
she at least attempt to do so. Rowena, however, was
making it exceedingly difficult to be polite.
Finally, the woman looked directly at her, the first
time she'd done so during the whole of dinner.
"What are your qualifications to be the Duke of
Brechin's governess, Miss Sinclair? Have you impec­
cable references?"
She had no references.
Beatrice glanced at Cameron Gordon, who was
watching her with an inscrutable expression on his
face, almost like a cat watching a mouse. There was go­
ing to be no assistance from him. Why? Because she'd
dared to challenge him this morning?
Once again, she had the thought she'd be better off
simply marching down the mountain. She'd find some
type of employment. Better yet, perhaps she'd even re­
turn to Edinburgh with Devlen when he next visited.
Surely in Edinburgh she could find a position with a
normal family.
As it was, however, she needed to answer the woman.
"While it is true my stitchery is not very competent,"
she said calmly, "I can read three languages. I speak
French as well as Italian and German, and can converse
on a variety of subjects secular or religious. I've helped
tutor young men in Latin, and I've had sufficient train­
ing in mathematics, geography, and economics."
"It seems you're talented in a variety of tasks, Miss
Sinclair. However, you need not narrow your employ­
ment to that of a governess. You could be suitable for a
diversity of employment, such as a milliner's assistant
or a barmaid, for example."
"I've no interest in hats, and while I don't object to
spirits because of any moral stance, I simply cannot
abide the smell of ale. Oddly enough, the owner of the
tavern at which I applied thought I was too old and ugly
to be employed by him." She looked directly at
Rowena. "I'm gratified you don't feel the same."
She didn't mention she'd no longer had a choice as to
what she would do. She had to become employed or sell
her body for a meal. "Virtue" was a word having mean­
ing only for the well fed, the warm, and the secure.
Had she simply exchanged one set of problems for
another? Perhaps, but the present set of problems came
equipped with a well-stocked larder and a salary that
had been mentioned in passing but still had the power to
make her jaw drop in shock.
She forced a smile to her face, and returned to her din­
ner, wishing Rowena Gordon had remained in London.
Dinner was excellent, roast beef and duckling, each
in a creamy sauce, vegetables, and a wonderful sweet
torte that was so light it almost floated off the plate. But
Beatrice couldn't help but wonder if being fed, however
fulsomely, was enough to offset living a furtive life
among people who suspected each other of unspeak­
able acts and hidden desires.
For the first time, she could understand why Robert
didn't want Cameron to know about the incident in the
woods. The two of them, boy and governess, ex­
changed a glance. She smiled, a look of collusion, and
vowed to keep his secret.
"I didn't expect to see you home so soon, sir." Saun­
ders stepped back, placed his fingers deftly around the
collar of Devlen's snug jacket and helped him skin it off.
"To tell you the truth," Devlen told the other man, "I
didn't expect to return home this early."
He walked into his library, satisfied when he noticed
his staff had lit all the candles in the sconces and the oil
lamps on the mantel and the desk.
"Was the gathering not to your taste, sir? I under­
stand some members of the royal family were to be in
attendance."
"They were, Saunders. Edinburgh society was
graced tonight with a few inbred cousins and more than
enough titles to throw around. They would have, I be­
lieve, gladly dispensed with the titles in exchange for
another fortune or two. Why is it, Saunders, that the
higher up in society one goes, the more one affects not
to need money and yet the more one must have it?"
"I'm sure I don't know, sir."
"You may go," he said, dismissing the other man
with a flick of his hand. Saunders disappeared from a
room with a relieved sigh.
Devlen was used to being alone, but this last week,
he'd begun to crave company. He disliked mysteries, es­
pecially those of his own nature. Why was he so restless?
The knock on the door was unexpected, and he
turned, waiting.
Saunders peered inside the room, his usual affable
appearance marred by a disconcerted expression.
"Sir, you have a visitor."
"At this hour?" He glanced at the mantel clock. Nine
o'clock. Not late enough to retire, but certainly too late
for a business appointment.
"A Mr. Martin, sir. He says it's vital he speak with
you."
Martin was the owner of a company he was thinking
of buying. The man had developed a type of percussion
powder that interested him. His company, however, was
lamentably run, without organization, and in financial
chaos. Martin was facing ruin, unless Devlen purchased
the sagging company as well as the man's new invention.
Devlen sat behind his desk and nodded to Saunders.
When Martin was ushered into his library, he ges­
tured to the chair opposite his desk.
Martin sat, hat held tightly between his hands.
"Have you thought about my proposal?" Devlen asked.
"I have. I don't want to sell. But I've no choice,
have I?"
"You always have a choice. I don't want it said I
browbeat you into a decision."
He stood, offered the man a glass of whiskey. Martin
took it, drank it too quickly, and set the tumbler down
on the edge of the desk. Devlen took his own glass and
returned to his chair.
"I want to be partners instead of giving you every­
thing. I'll sell you half."
He raised one eyebrow. "What good is half a com­
pany to me?"
Martin didn't answer.
Devlen leaned back in the chair, waiting.
Because I have the knowledge and you don't. Because
I'll make you money. Because I'll keep my new inven­
tion unless you agree to my terms. All comments Devlen
expected to hear from the man sitting opposite him.
Martin, however, simply stared down at his hat and
remained mute.
Devlen had no patience with people who couldn't
define exactly what they wanted and how they wanted
it. A man should always be able to articulate his wishes
and goals.
"Well?"
Still, the man didn't look at him.
"Why would it be to my advantage to buy half your
company? I'm not used to being a partner. I prefer to
own things outright."
Martin looked up. Devlen was horrified to note tears
in the other man's eyes.
"It's all I have."
Devlen stood and walked to the window.
A more compassionate man might have given in at
that point. But he'd never been judged as exceptionally
compassionate. Shrewd, yes. Sensible, certainly. Dog­
matic, intense, ambitious, all labels he accepted be­
cause society insisted upon tagging its members.
"Are you married, Mr. Martin?" He didn't turn to
look at the other man.
"Yes, I am. Twenty years now."
"Do you love your wife?"
"Sir?"
Devlen turned to face the other man. "A curious
question, but humor me. Do you love your wife?"
Martin nodded.
"How did you decide you loved her?"
The other man looked confused, and Devlen couldn't
blame him.
"Well, it was an arranged marriage, sir. Her father
knew my father."
"So, you decided you loved her after a few years?"
Martin smiled. "More like a few weeks. She was a
pretty little thing, with blond hair and the prettiest eyes.
Hazel-like, but if she wore a blue dress, they were blue.
She has this green thing she likes to wear for special oc­
casions, and I could stare at her eyes for hours when she
does. It's like they're pools or ponds." He shook his
head and stared down at his shoes.
"Do you love her for her appearance, Mr. Martin?"
He rapidly shook his head, his attention still on his
shoes. "She's the kindest soul I've ever known. She'll
rescue a person as soon as she will a stray dog, Mr.
Gordon. You might even say she's rescued me."
"Then your company isn't the only thing you have,
Mr. Martin. It's not even the most important thing in
your life."
Martin looked up at him curiously. "You believe a
man's marriage is more important than his business,
sir? Then why have you never married?"
Devlen returned to his desk.
"You haven't given me a good enough answer, Mar­
tin. Why should I settle for half?"
Martin had run his company into the ground. He'd
taken a brilliant idea and let it fester.

</file>

<file= AmE06_P08>

Can't do a damn thing right, boy. Might as well replace you with one of the scullery servants. At least in the trade I would get a son with half a brain.

The Marquess of Penderdale
to Christian, age ten

F or Kate, splinter removal had always involved a needle and some painful poking. Who knew that all it took was a warm, talented mouth to get the job done?

Christian Black obviously had the right idea.

His teeth grazed the side of her palm, and she rose slightly onto her toes as her breath caught. Was that his tongue? What was he doing?

Heat shot through her body and her breath released in little pants as he continued to suck and lick and kiss the sensitive side of her hand. Unfamiliar sensations tingled across her skin and down her spine, spiraling somewhere near her middle.

Desire. She couldn't stop her head from tilting back or her mouth from falling open as he held her gaze and nipped her hand. His blue eyes, dark and intense, were unrelenting as he licked and sucked and bit. She felt desirable for the first time in so many long weeks.

What would it be like to kiss this man?

Somehow her pinkie ended up in his mouth and she couldn't withhold a moan as he slowly withdrew it with a pop.

He leaned forward, pressing her against the wood railing, his unshaved jaw lightly brushing her smooth cheek. He buried his head in her hair. He smelled like cinnamon.

He leaned back and removed something from his tongue. He winked as he held up the splinter and then flicked it over the railing. Before she could regain her thoughts, he spun her around, reversing their positions, so he was leaning back against the rail and she was nestled against him.

"Wouldn't want you to get a splinter in a more delicate location, Kate." His face was full of supreme male self-satisfaction. She didn't have the presence of mind to say anything witty in return.

He pulled her body closer, and the heat curled in her middle moved farther south. His mouth was a hairsbreadth away from her own.

"Unless of course, you want me to remove another splinter? I would be happy to chase them all over your body."

His voice was husky; his warm cinnamon breath caressed her lips as his hovered millimeters over hers.

"I ... "

Her eyes were focused on his lips, waiting for them to connect with hers, but they curled upward instead.

He pushed away from the rail, hot and hard against her. His lips brushed the lobe of her good ear. "Perhaps later, then? Hmmm?"

"Perhaps," she whispered, her mouth developing a mind of its own.

"Excellent." His jaw brushed against her cheek again and he straightened. "Come. While Nickford is downstairs, let's search his room."

Kate nodded, trying to organize her muddled thoughts. A thread of delight filtered through her. He wanted her. Poor, damaged Kate.

Her temporary delight shriveled back to the shadows. He had no idea that she was scarred, and when he did, how would he express his revulsion? Connor had treated her well until she had removed her head covering. After she had removed it, things ... things hadn't gone so well.

Christian tugged her hand, releasing it as they entered the common room.

For emotional survival, Kate had to keep the relationship with Christian strictly geared toward the investigation. No more personal involvement or physical innuendos.

She couldn't afford the rejection.

For whatever reason, whether it was the hazardous situation, the high possibility for rejection, or just Christian himself, seductive and worldly, Kate felt more was at stake than with any previous suitor or flirtation. Her feelings were more intense toward Christian Black than she had ever felt toward another.

She couldn't let him hurt her. She would reject him first.

Christian inserted the key in the lock and they stepped inside Nickford's room. It was in chaos, just as it had been the night before. A mountain of clothes was heaped across a chair. Empty dishes and leftover food were stacked on a table. Journals and equipment littered the makeshift workspaces and bed. The pallet sat innocuously on the floor.

She nervously touched the knotty wood wall. As soon as he made a move toward her, she would reject him. It was for the best. No matter that her body screamed otherwise. No matter that a tendril of happiness had been stirred, the first in so long.

She waited as Christian started flipping through journals. Wasn't he going to continue his seduction? He had said later, but she didn't think he was the type to employ self-control. Any minute now he would make his move.

She had known the man for merely two days, and there was little evidence to prove he wasn't the scoundrel ninety percent of his gestures claimed him.

He stepped in front of you, guarded you in the taproom fight.

She scoffed. He would have done it for Daisy.

But doesn't that mean he isn't a complete scoundrel?

It meant he looked out for his own interests. He was probably waiting to make a final move on her, deliberately laying the groundwork piece by piece to keep her off balance.

Or maybe he isn't quite as interested in you as you are in him.

She grudgingly admitted that her feminine side most definitely wanted his attention. Christian was a very handsome and charming man. Dashing. Most women would feel flattered to be the center of his focus. But that was just it. He was the type of man to concentrate intensely on one woman, only to drop her and be off as soon as his attention wavered to the next bit of muslin. Or as soon as he saw her scars.

Not all charmers have ill intent.

The annoying little voice in her head needed to stop playing devil's advocate.

Some rogues turned out to be quite the catch. The most infamous rascal in their county being Joshua McShaver, the rakish cobbler, who rivaled anyone in the Midland villages in his number of sheer conquests. Then one summer afternoon he met Caroline Travis, a woman who had just moved to their village. Within a week he had chased, caught, and married her, surprising everyone in the district and causing massive sums of money to exchange hands in lost bets.

Joshua was an utterly devoted husband, and the look in his eyes when he gazed on his wife made more than one woman sigh dreamily. Something about Caroline Travis had ensnared him as no other woman within fifty miles had been able to accomplish.

Kate didn't quite see herself as the Caroline to Christian's Joshua though. Christian seemed to be more worldly, for one, and more cynical for another.

She covertly studied him. She had known him only two days. But then Caroline and Joshua had known each other only ten minutes before he began the chase, and look how that relationship had turned out.

Will you deny the happiness you so desperately seek because of fear?

She scoffed. She didn't fear rejection. She just awaited it with all the trepidation of the hangman's noose.

Oh, all right, fine. She feared it. She just wished the bothersome voice in her head would pick a side and stick with it.

Kate left Christian to the journals, which he was meticulously opening, examining, and discarding. She picked through the items nearest the door. The vial of bloodstained slivers was there, as was a stained handkerchief and a stamp with red wax adhering to the edges. The image on the stamp was a leaping lion. Kate made a mental note of the items, and looked up to see Christian muttering disgustedly as he closed the last journal and tossed it in the pile.

"What?"

He waved her off. Working through the rest of the room, they examined the catapult Nickford had been working on the day before. There was little else of interest until Christian reached under the bed and pulled out a metal pipe. He hefted it and looked speculatively at the pile near the door.

"A good murder weapon, no?"

Kate lifted her brows. "Wouldn't there be dried blood on it?"

"Not if he wiped it on that handkerchief."

He pointed to the handkerchief she had found. She looked back to the pile with the slivers and the stamp. "The red stains could be from the sealing wax."

Christian smiled. "We'll make a Runner of you yet."

She rolled her eyes, trying to ignore the pleasurable tingles his genuine smile elicited. She took the pipe and rolled it in her hands. It looked clean, though again they couldn't be sure it hadn't been wiped clean the night before.

Kate took a last gander around the room. "Do you think we should move on to another room?"

Christian appeared to consider their alternatives. "Sure, let's visit Lake's next."
Kate nodded, conflicted on the temporary reprieve from returning to their room. He touched her hand lightly as he locked Nickford's room, and she wondered if it was by accident or design. He gestured for her to lead the way. No teasing smile anywhere on his face, just a certain watchfulness.

Kate's mind whirled as she walked to Lake's room. That look. The one that Joshua had given Caroline when he wasn't sure if he was moving too fast and was very concerned with the result.

Was it just her imagination desperately conjuring the images she wished to see?

Kate snapped to attention as Christian nudged her with his hip. She had just been staring at Lake's door - daydreaming. How mortifying. That had happened far too frequently of late. She knocked. No one answered, so Christian inserted the key and unlocked the door.

If they had thought Nickford's room was messy, Lake's was a sty. Clothes were strewn everywhere, as if thrown in a jealous rage. Perhaps during the breakage the night before. Sure enough, there was shattered glass in one corner that had been poorly swept to the side.

Kate knelt by the glass shards, touched the discoloration, and brought her fingers to her nose. Judging by the smell, the liquid had been from an oil lamp.

"Does Lake want to burn down the inn?" she asked.

"Wouldn't be a very good way to woo a woman by burning down her family's business."

"I wouldn't think so, no."

They searched through the rubble, shifting things from one pile to another.

"Look at this, Christian." Kate held up a cricket bat. Various colors and stains decorated the surface, but one most definitely looked like blood.

Christian reached for the bat. "That would surely make a dent."

"And there appears to be dried blood on it."

"You think Lake bludgeoned Janson with his cricket bat? Seems a fitting weapon, actually, since they were rivals."

She nodded.

He looked distracted. "There was an indentation in the wood railing. Let me check something, I'll be right back."

Christian walked from the room, leaving Kate alone with the bat in hand. Something twinkled in the corner and she walked over to examine it. Broken glass, but not the same quality or kind as the glass from the lamp. This was darker in color. She turned it over in her hand, wondering what it was from.

Another oil lamp? Lawrence Lake seemed prone to smashing glass.

"Good evening, Mr. Kaden."

Kate whipped around, startled to see Lake standing in the doorway, staring intently at the bat in her hand. His expression grew sinister as he lifted his eyes to hers, stepped inside the room, and closed the door.

Chapter 10

Trust is something that is hard to define. Much like love.

George Simon
to Kate, age seventeen

K ate panicked. How had he slipped in so quietly? Most of the inn's doors squeaked. It was almost as if Lake had oiled his ... 

"I see you found my bat, Mr. Kaden."

</file>

<file= AmE06_P09>

"He's to face charges of theft here. A detachment of sol-
diers was dispatched to collect him from the warehouse
where Yun had him stashed. He should be at the Old Bailey
by now."
Charlemagne nodded, relieved. "He caused a fair amount
of trouble for us, but under the circumstances I'm inclined to
forgive him. He gave them my name rather than Sarala's."
"Shay!"
He turned to face Prinny in the far doorway. "Yes, Your
Majesty?"
"Invite me to the wedding."
"With pleasure."
"That settles that," Melbourne said, as they all left Carl-
ton House. "There's no chance of elopement for you now."
"Are you certain you want to see us at Westminster Ab-
bey?" Sarala asked, putting a hand on the duke's arm.
He covered her hand with his. "I am certain. Hanover and
I are going to White's for luncheon. Where are you off to?"
Charlemagne looked down at Sarala, warmth coursing
through him. "I thought I'd take her about for a bit more
sightseeing. And I want a word with Captain Blink, if I can
get in to see him."
"Don't be too grateful to him," his brother returned. "He
began this mess."
"It ended well enough." Shay lifted Sarala's fingers and
kissed them.
She smiled. The sight she most wanted to see was Shay
naked again, but she would do her best to be patient. Four
more weeks.
Jenny waited for them, and Shay handed them into his
coach. "Where are we going, then?" Sarala asked as the
coach rolled into the street.
"Since you were only able to view the Egyptian room at
the British Museum, I thought you might enjoy seeing the
Roman collection there."
"Yes, please," she said with a smile. "But first tell me this:
Have you heard anything about DeLayne?"
"Melbourne heard through his cousin that he's making
plans to return to India." Gray eyes gazed at her. "You're not
sorry for him, are you?"
"No. I just keep thinking that he went from believing he
owned the world to being the laughingstock of all of his
peers."
"He would have done the same to you."
She sighed. "I know. In a sense, though, it's hardly fair
that he gets India."
"And you only get me?"
The wooden panel at Shay's shoulder exploded inward.
Sarala shrieked as he tumbled sideways. "Shay!"
He clawed to his feet, kicking the door opened as
he straightened. "Wait here," he growled, and launched
outside.
She was blasted well not waiting there. Sarala jumped to
the ground to the sight of absolute chaos. The coach was
stopped in the middle of the street, pedestrians running and
yelling and mostly rushing forward to see the tangle of dark
suits and greatcoats smashing into one another in front of
the bakery. John DeLayne.
Charlemagne heaved the viscount to his feet and swung a
fist at him. DeLayne blocked the blow, grabbing the lapel of
Shay's coat and hurling the two of them through the bakery
window. In the confusion of feet as everyone swept forward
to get a better view, Sarala saw a pistol. Pushing hard, she
made it through the crowd and crouched to grab it. The
muzzle was still hot.
DeLayne had actually tried to kill one or both of them.
He probably didn't care which. Shaking, she clutched the
pistol, lifting it. "Move aside!" she yelled.
More screams erupted as she waved the weapon, but the
spectators moved. She pushed the bakery door open with
her shoulder and stalked inside. A knife in one hand, John
slashed toward Shay. Shay ducked, striking out with a light-
ning punch that sent DeLayne reeling backward.
"Stop!" Sarala moved closer, aiming the pistol at John.
"Don't make me shoot you!"
"You'll have to shoot me!" the viscount sputtered, stag-
gering back to his feet. "You've already ruined me!"
He took a step toward her, and Shay tackled him in the
chest, sending the two of them through the wooden coun-
ter. With a wrench he grabbed the knife away from the
viscount and tossed it aside. "Don't shoot him," he panted,
blood streaking down one cheek. "I've been wanting to do
this for days."
"I am not going to allow you to beat him to death, Shay,"
she snapped, worried both by the blood and by the ferocious
light in his eyes. For the first time she realized just how
tightly he'd been holding himself in check, and how serious
Melbourne's warnings for him to mind his temper had
been.
"Then what's to keep him from shooting through win-
dows at us again?" Shay demanded, hitting the viscount
again. DeLayne sank to his knees, his eyes rolling back in
his head.
"What's all this?" A bevy of men in the garb of Bow
Street Runners shoved past the bystanders and into the small
bakery.
"Thank goodness," she breathed, releasing the spent
weapon as one of them grabbed it from her. "That man," she
stated, jabbing a finger at the reeling DeLayne, "just tried to
kill us."
"I did not!" the viscount mumbled through bloody teeth.
"He attacked me!"
"There's a hole in my carriage, and one in my shoulder,"
Shay retorted, taking a step back only when two men grabbed
his arms and hauled him that way. "He's been running mad
for days. Last night at a soiree he was practically frothing at
the mouth. I want him arrested."
"And who are you, sir?"
"Charlemagne Griffin," he answered promptly. "That's
Viscount DeLayne."
"The one with the Chinese swordsmen story?" someone
from outside the shop called. "I heard he'd been sent to
Bedlam."
The Runners released Shay as soon as he said his name.
"We'll take him to the Old Bailey, my lord," their captain
said. "I take it you're willing to press charges?"
"Absolutely."
With DeLayne still shouting his innocence, the Bow
Street Runners dragged him out of the shop. As soon as the
way to him was clear, Sarala rushed Shay. "You were shot?
Why didn't you say anything?" She yanked him around,
searching his shoulder. "You might have been killed!"
"So might you have been," he returned, wincing. "It's just
a graze. But we'll settle this in a moment." Shaking her off,
he walked to the corner of the shop where she finally no-
ticed the poor baker still cowering, a sack of flour in his
arms. "Will twenty quid pay for the damage?" he asked, still
breathing hard.
"Y . . . yes, my lord."
Nodding, Shay counted out the money and set it on the
counter. "My apologies, sir. And my thanks for helping to
catch an attempted murderer."
Shay took Sarala's hand as they picked their way through
the wreckage at the front of the shop. He staggered a little,
and her heart stopped. Good heavens, how badly had he
been hurt? "We have to get you to a physician," she said,
helping him to the coach.
"I'll be fine."
"You can barely stand."
"He kicked me in my damned knee. No physicians."
"Shay, you can't - "
"My home is right around the corner. Oswald can patch
me up."
She half shoved him into the coach, and followed behind
him. "To Gaston House," she ordered the driver, pulling the
door closed. "Now take off your coat. Jenny, help us."
The maid scooted forward to help Shay shrug out of his
dirty, torn coat. His left shoulder was bloody, and she
gasped. "Shay, why didn't you - "
"He might have shot you instead of me," Charlemagne
growled, pulling her forward and kissing her fiercely. "You
should have let me kill him."
"I just didn't want you to be hurt," she said, a tear running
down her face.
"Losing you would hurt much more than this." He backed
off a little, running a finger along her cheek. "Melbourne's
not going to be happy, though. I wrecked a bakery."
A laugh escaped her throat despite herself. "You paid for
the damage." She pulled out her handkerchief and wrapped
it tightly around his upper arm. "But how will you testify
against DeLayne? What if someone asks you about the Chi-
nese soldiers? They were real, you know."
"I don't think it'll come to that," he returned, wiping
blood from his cheek with the back of his hand. "I wanted
him locked away from us, but I think if I offer him the
choice between prison and a permanent residence in India,
he'll take the latter. I'm even willing to sweeten the pot, if
necessary, to keep him away from us."
"That's probably what he wanted."
"Then he's lucky you stopped me from killing him." He
said it lightly, but she heard the steel in his voice. He would
have killed DeLayne. She wondered if the viscount had any
idea just how lucky he had been.
Sooner than she expected, the coach rolled to a stop.
"Jenny, fetch Mr. Oswald," she instructed, unwilling to leave
Charlemagne's side.
Jenny bolted out the door, and a moment later a large,
broad butler in livery appeared in the coach doorway. "You've
taken hurt, my lord?" he rumbled.
"A scratch. But I've learned never to dissuade a woman
who wants to coddle me."
Despite the words, he staggered a little as she and Oswald
helped him to the ground and up to the door. For a brief
moment Sarala stopped on the front steps, looking up. Gas-
ton House resembled most of the wealthier town houses,
fairly narrow but at least three stories tall, two dozen win-
dows overlooking Piccadilly and the park beyond, the front
a freshly painted white.
"Where's your bedchamber?" she asked as they contin-
ued inside, pulling his wounded arm over her shoulder.
He hesitated. "The morning room's fine," he said, angling
them toward the nearest doorway.
"No. You need to lie down."
"It's upstairs, first door on the right, my lady," Oswald
contributed.
"Very good. Will you fetch some water and bandages?"
"Right away, my lady."
On the landing, Charlemagne pulled her into a close em-
brace. "You're rather wonderful, you know?" he murmured,
kissing her softly. "Jenny, wait downstairs."
The maid dipped a curtsy. "Very good, my lord."
As they climbed to the first floor, Sarala looked about
them. Scattered on the walls and on the tables along the up-
stairs hall she saw a sampling of some of Charlemagne's
antiques and artifacts. He had exquisite taste; she looked
forward to exploring.
The door Oswald had indicated was closed. She reached
out to push the latch, but Shay blocked her arm. "It's not
ready," he said abruptly.
"What? I don't care if your bed's unmade, Shay."
"No, it's not - "
She pushed open the door and walked inside. And stopped
dead.
Yellow and gold silk curtained the windows and great
swaths of the walls, with pillows and throws draped across
the bed and the floor. The bed itself was deep green and gold
silk shimmering with gold threads. All the furniture was
deep red-brown burnished mahogany, rich and gold-tinged
with age and care.
"Oh, Shay," she breathed.
"I still need a few more pieces. I wanted to surprise
you."
"I'm surprised," she said shakily. "It's lovely. You did this
for me?"
"Of course I did. I know you miss India, and I thought - "
She grabbed his waistcoat and yanked him forward, cov-
ering his mouth with hot, deep kisses. "I love you," she
murmured.
"I love you," he returned, reaching back behind him to
close the door. "I want you to be happy here."
Oswald scratched at the door. "My lord? The - "
Reluctantly Sarala broke free and opened the door, taking
the water bowl and cloths and then closing it again before
she set the things aside. Apparently she would see Shay na-
ked again sooner than she'd expected. Slowly she approached
him and pulled his shirt free from his breeches.
"Mai khush hu. Mai tum pyar karne," she said unsteadily,
as his hands slid around her waist and his mouth dipped to
her throat. "I am happy. I love you."

</file>

<file= AmE06_P10>

Chapter 1

Burke Longton grabbed hold of his chains and
scrambled to his feet as soon as the motley
crew of ive stormed his prison cell. He didn't know
for whom, out of the six in the cell, they had come,
but he intended to make sure he left with them. Two
weeks in this stinking hellhole had been enough.
He wanted out and he wanted home.
"There's little time," the tallest of the men said.
"Follow our orders and we'll get you out of here."
Burke had no problem with that. Whatever it took
to be free, he was ready, and it looked like the other
prisoners agreed. All had gotten to their feet, some
with dificulty, and held out chained wrists, eager
to be rid of the weighted metal cuffs that had rubbed
their lesh raw.
Their jailer suddenly stumbled into the room,
and Burke glared at him. He hated the sight of the
paunchy man. His entrance always heralded tor
ture, and his enjoyment of his job was obvious from
the constant smile he wore.
Only this time, the jailer looked fearful, his eyes
wide, sweat pouring down his reddened cheeks.
"The keys!"
Burke blinked twice. Had a lad stepped from be
hind the jailer? He shook his head, too many curves
in just the right places. It was a woman, a pint-sized
one garbed in men's clothing, and she handled the
sword that was almost her size with conidence. She
pushed the point right between the folds of his thick
neck.
"I'll not ask again," she warned.
Burke smirked when, with an effortless lick of
the blade, she nicked his skin and a rivulet of blood
cascaded down his chest to pool on his grimy shirt.
The man eagerly fumbled keys over to her.
"Tanin," she said, tossing the ring to the tallest
man.
The man reached out. The metal ring hooked on
one of his long ingers, he then worked fast freeing
everyone while two men trussed up the jailer like a
fat pig for roasting.
"He'll need help." The woman nodded toward a
man who was having trouble standing on his own.
Then she searched the room with wide, stormy blue
eyes. The color reminded Burke of a turbulent ocean
just before a gale force hit. For a brief moment, he
wondered if iery red curls lay beneath her knit cap
to match the squall surfacing in her eyes.
"I don't see him," she said, annoyed.
"This is where I was told he'd be." Tanin walked
over to her, and together they searched the dark
ened corners of the cell.
It was obvious they were looking for someone in
particular and Burke had the feeling he knew
whom. The guards had brought the young man in
only last night, but they acted as if they had cap
tured a rare prize. They had strutted and pranced
around him while gleefully detailing what they in
tended to do to him. His response hadn't been what
they'd expected.
"They took a young man out of here a short time
ago," Burke said now.
The woman approached him with conidence and
not an ounce of fear. It did not intimidate her a bit to
have to tilt her head back to gaze up at him, his
height close to six feet.
"Do you know where he was taken, and is he all
right?"
"He's a strong one for a skinny kid," Burke said.
"Though I think it was spitting in the jailer's face
that did him in."
The woman grinned. "That's Malcolm."
"I'm not sure where he is, but after he was dragged
out by several guards, I heard a door slam not far
off and the clink of a key in a lock."
"The cells at the end of the tunnel," Tanin said
and handed her the keys.
The woman eyed the prisoners ready to leave.
"There's no time to waste. Get them out of here."
Burke was shocked that the tall man turned and
did as he was told. How the hell could he leave the
small wisp of a woman on her own to free one of
their comrades?
I'll help you," Burke offered.
"No. You'll go with them."
She gave him a shove that he didn't appreciate,
and it only served to make him stand his ground.
"You'll need help," he insisted.
"Not likely," she said, sounding affronted. "It's
none of your concern. Now go."
She dismissed him with the turn of her back and
took off past the prisoners who were standing in a
single ile, eager to make their escape.
Tanin waved for him to take up the rear and he
did, though reluctantly. He just couldn't believe all
ive men would allow a single, peasized woman to
go off on her own to rescue a man. Where was their
common sense?
Burke reminded himself that Scotland was far dif
ferent from America. Sure there were strong women
in America, especially in the Dakota Territory, where
he came from, but a man protected a woman. He was
stronger and more capable, and it was a man's duty
to look after women. Hadn't his father taught him
that? And wasn't his deceased father the reason he
was here in this mess in the irst place?
He shook his head as they quietly made their way
down the passageway, a single torch guiding their
way.
A clang of steel had them freezing in their tracks,
and Tanin ordered everyone to hurry. Burke glanced
back and spotted where the passageway veered off
into a darkened tunnel.
He had only a moment to make his decision, but
it was an easy one. There was no way he'd leave that
woman on her own, whether she liked it or not.
Burke could barely make out where he was going.
His broad shoulders bumped into the narrow tun
nel walls now and again, and dust collected in his
nostrils from the dry dirt his boots kicked up.
He wondered why he hadn't collided with the
woman yet. She hadn't had that much of a head
start on him. And with it being so dark, she couldn't
possibly have traveled that fast.
The whining screech of rusty hinges stopped him
dead. A clang of chains, mufled voices, and then
suddenly hasty footfalls approached from the op
posite direction.
Burke readied himself, intending to take the per
son down and ind out his identity later. He waited
in the dark, listening, judging the distance, and
when the time was right . . .
His arm shot out and the man crumpled to the
ground, probably not knowing what had hit him.
In an instant, the woman was in his face, her blue
eyes the color of a gale storm that would put fear in
the staunchest of sailors.
"I gave you orders," she snapped.
Burke was good at giving orders, not taking
them, and certainly not from this wee wisp of a
woman.
"I thought you might need my help - and I was
right." He leaned down, grabbed the dirk in the
guard's waistband, and held it in front of her face.
"You thought wrong. I would have handled him."
She shoved him aside. "We need to get out of here
now."
The narrow passageway afforded little room, and
in stepping over the unconscious man, she all but
melded with Burke to brush past him. He felt her
sleek frame coil, tense, and move off, all in a split
second.
She once again issued orders.
"Malcolm, stay behind him. And you - " She
jabbed at Burke's chest. "Do as I say."
Malcolm leaned into him. "Do what Storm says.
Believe me, you don't want her mad at you."
Her name certainly it her, but then he had weath
ered enough storms in his life. This little tempest
wouldn't intimidate him.
"Make another mistake, stranger, and you're
dead," she warned as if making a casual remark.
"Let's go."
Malcolm nudged him this time. "Storm takes get
ting used to."
You could say that again, Burke thought. Sand
wiched between the pair, he easily kept pace with
them. He followed her sure-footed steps without
complaint since he had no idea how to get out of
there, and he didn't intend to be left behind.
They came upon a dimly lit passageway and
made their way to a light of steps, then up a circu
lar stone staircase and out into the dusky night.
Pungent pine and crisp autumn air greeted him,
and with a deep breath, he drank greedily of free
dom. He caught that breath when stung by the
warning in Storm's eyes for silence.
She signaled them to follow, reminding him once
again to be silent before she crept cautiously against
the stone wall of the prison.
Burke followed and as they came to the edge of the
corner, he caught sight of the last of the prisoners
disappearing into the woods a few feet away. Tanin
gave a signal, then merged with the thick trees.
Storm stepped forward, just as a guard came into
sight. While the young guard fumbled for his
sword, Burke reacted instinctively, pouncing on
him with a solid blow to his jaw that knocked him
out cold. He turned to grab Storm's arm and head
for the cover of the trees but she sidestepped him.
"Get him out of here, Malcolm, before I run my
blade through him," Storm said, pointing her sword
at Burke.
"Let's go," Malcolm said, grabbing his arm.
Burke yanked his arm free, and before he could
say a word, he felt the point of a blade at his neck.
"I'll not warn you again about following my or
ders. Go with Malcolm or feel my sword. The choice
is yours."
"You certainly don't respond well to a helping
hand."
She pressed the sword to his neck, not enough to
draw blood, but to warn that she meant business.
"Fine," Burke said through gritted teeth.
She withdrew the blade, and Burke, swearing be
neath his breath, followed Malcolm.

Chapter 2

Storm couldn't wait to get rid of the American.
He had done nothing but interfere with her
carefully laid plans. She could tell that he wasn't
used to following orders and that he could handle
himself in a dificult situation. However, this was
her command, her battle, her land.
Which was why, at the irst possible chance, she
would leave him somewhere safe enough, but she
wanted to be rid of him. She couldn't take the chance
of his messing things up any more than he already
had.
She did wonder why he had been imprisoned, but
then it didn't take much of an accusation to be in
carcerated. He had probably been in the wrong
place at the wrong time or he didn't have enough
money to pay the bribe on trumped-up charges. Ei
ther way, it was not her concern.
He glanced back at her from where he walked a
few feet ahead. He had done that from time to time,
almost as if he watched out for her. She needed no
one doing that. She was more than capable of look
ing after herself.
She did have to give him credit for keeping up the
tough pace she had set for the group throughout the
night. He looked sturdy enough, muscled arms and
thighs attested to his strength. His dark trousers were
torn at the knee and his white shirt ripped at the
shoulder. Dark brown eyes were set in a rugged face
marred by a few cuts and bruises and covered with
dirt and sweat. His unkempt brown hair brushed his
shoulders, and she had noticed that his hand had
drifted often to his side - a common gesture for a
man used to having a weapon strapped to his leg.
He looked back again and held her glance. There
was determination and annoyance in his brown
eyes, which suddenly widened as he rushed at her.
She mumbled an oath as her foot caught on an
exposed tree root and she tumbled forward.

</file>

<file= AmE06_P11>

Chapter One

Poitiers, France
Spring 1174

" ... married for money, bred for heirs, She wept in shadow, burdened by cares."

I vy Rutherford read her new poem aloud, hoping the freshly penned words would touch the hearts of the jaded court ladies who filled Queen Eleanor's garden bower. She took a calming breath before continuing her recitation.

"Til a Knight arrived, his honor well-proved, Who spied her tears and his soul was moved. Love's keen lance soon pierced her heart - "

Lady Gertrude snorted as she patted the head of her obnoxious little lapdog. "I'll bet that's not all love's lance pierced."

Feminine twitters rippled among Eleanor's courtly crowd, which was gathered in the shade of the vine-covered wooden arbor for their afternoon entertainment.

Ivy stared down at the costly parchment, the words she had labored over crumpling slightly with her tightened grip as laughter erupted from the queen's cronies. Eager to put the awkward moments of reading her new creation behind her, she continued as soon as the noise abated.

"And Venus revealed her comely art - "

More laughter.

"Enough!" Marie, Comtesse de Champagne, rose from her bench amid the flowering foxgloves, silencing the assembly with one censuring frown. Tall and elegant, Marie wrote poetry herself and perhaps understood the difficulty of creative endeavors more than did her peers. "Ivy has been gracious enough to amuse us this afternoon. We can at least extend her the courtesy of silence."

Although she appreciated the comtesse's efforts, Ivy sensed from her brief time at court that the queen's ladies would swarm like vultures around any creature weak enough to require another's defense. Their unspoken scorn reverberated in her ears as clearly as the chirp of the lone meadowlark fluttering about the bower's eaves. How dare she, a mere merchant's daughter, give herself noble airs?

From the front row, stout and stalwart Lady Gertrude appealed to the queen. Latticework shadows flickered across Gertrude's sullen features as her dog growled. "Since when have any of us in Your Majesty's illustrious court had to feign enjoyment of inferior art?"

Ivy flinched at the cruelty - and accuracy - of the jab, regretting her vulnerability to the criticism. Her poems meant the world to her. Life at Queen Eleanor's court gave Ivy the chance to indulge in the most important thing in her life - her art.

Lifting a censorious brow in Gertrude's direction, the queen peered down her nose. "Do not attempt to flatter me. There is no excuse for coarse manners at my court."

Ivy ducked to hide her smile. Not that she cared so much about Gertrude being put in her place, but because Ivy loved to see the queen in action. Few could match wits with Eleanor of Aquitaine.

The woman was everything Ivy longed to be - independent, confident, talented. Besides, at fifty-two years old, having served half that time as queen of one realm or another, Eleanor had never shed a tear in public, even when her husband was rumored to have been conducting a flagrant affair under her nose. Ivy braved a glance at her sovereign, who was seated in the bower's only chair in the midst of her ladies. All of Europe stood in awe of her audacity in starting her own royal court in her family seat of Poitou on the wrong side of the English Channel. She had astonished the western world by defying her adulterous husband, an English king no less.

"I apologize, Your Majesty." Gertrude bowed her head in deference to the queen.

Other women who had laughed at Ivy's poem now dipped their heads, too, though Ivy suspected their motives had more to do with securing the queen's good graces than actual remorse. Knowing that didn't squelch a brief sense of victory.

"And, Gertrude, you are wrong to say Ivy's art is inferior." Queen Eleanor turned indulgent eyes toward her newest troubadour.

Thank heaven the queen appreciated her efforts. As long as Ivy pleased the monarch, her position at court remained secure. Ivy could not help the fanciful dream she had of rising in station one day thanks to her art. A foolish notion, no doubt.

"She has written poetry to make my spirit soar," Eleanor continued, "and she will do so again."

Ivy almost burst with pride. The queen did not praise idly.

"Her failing today resulted not from inferior art," the queen continued, "but from lack of life experience in regard to the nature of love."

No one dared laugh, yet Ivy imagined they wanted to. Her utter lack of knowledge about men had been brought to her attention on several occasions since she had joined the court a fortnight ago.

The queen swept the room with a shrewd and level glare. "I chose to bring Ivy to Poitiers because she is a brilliant thinker. While most of you belong to this court by chance of birth, Ivy is here because she has made something fine and noble of herself in spite of her heritage, tainted by her noble mother's marriage to a commoner."

The other women looked down at their colorful, silk-covered laps while the soft hum of honeybees drifted on the breeze.

Mon Dieu. The ladies-in-waiting would definitely resent the merchant's daughter now. But the queen's brief words had given Ivy more confidence in her art than her father had bothered to engender in her in a lifetime, and for that, Ivy would be forever grateful.

Perched on a stool only slightly lower than the queen's chair, Comtesse Marie nodded, clearly approving of her mother's speech.

"How might we assist Ivy in her love poetry, Mother?" Marie interjected after an appropriate silence. "You yourself have noted it is not as strong as some of her other pieces. Must we marry off young Ivy to give her some notion of love?"

The queen laughed. "I think most of us can attest to the fact that marriage does not teach a woman about love."

Amen.

From Ivy's observation of her parents' disastrous marriage, she knew the Church-sanctioned union of man and woman did little to foster tender feelings between them. Yet she nurtured a secret hope that one day she would experience the rare gift of true love - the kind troubadours described in their ballads. The kind that made Ivy's wishful heart sing like the bird fluttering overhead.

Marie winked in Ivy's direction, then turned back to the queen. "Yes, but once she is married, other men can woo her openly without the constraint of her maidenly status."

Several women nodded.

They could not truly mean that.

Unrealistic as her dreams might be, Ivy wanted no part of a loveless marriage. Not even for her art's sake would she suffer a husband who cared naught for her. She'd sooner endure a spinster's fate.

"Perhaps ... " Eleanor tilted her silver-threaded head to one side. "Perhaps Ivy might join our Court of Love proceedings for the next moon or two."

A low murmur of surprise - or was it disapproval? - rumbled through the group. Eleanor's courts of love were entertaining gatherings for the diverse travelers and guests who populated Poitiers at any time of year, but especially during the spring. Lovers brought their romantic problems before the judgment of the ladies at court, a practice that provided amusement as well as enlightenment, since the assemblies were forums for discussing the ideals of romantic love that regional troubadours struggled to express to the world in their beloved art form.

Marie smiled. "What a wonderful idea, Mother. She could find no better place to learn about passion ... outside an ardent man's arms, that is."

Lady Gertrude spluttered her indignation, her chubby fingers tightening around her scrawny dog's head while the animal yelped. "But you said yourself the girl knows nothing of love. How would she contribute to our discussions?"

"She does not have to contribute. She will merely observe." Eleanor cast a knowing glance toward Ivy. "Our Ivy likes playing the quiet role of spectator, do you not, my dear?"

Was this crowd of worldly women determined to make Ivy feel inferior? Without question. She cringed whenever her new troubadour position forced her to read her labors of love aloud. Today, she was stuck in front of everyone, a defenseless target of their scrutiny.

"Yes, Your Majesty."

"Then it is settled," the queen announced, smiling. Her beauty, only slightly faded with age, sparkled with her pleasure. "We meet tomorrow morning to review our next case. Who is it to be, Marie?"

Ivy fought the urge to clap her hands together in delight. The Court of Love enjoyed notoriety across the land, and now she would witness it firsthand. What wonderful fodder for her poetry.

"Lord Roger Stancliff, my lady, newly arrived from England."

A collective squeal arose from the younger women of the party.

"Come to seduce the ladies of the court and drink the gentlemen under the trestle tables, I suppose?" The queen hissed the question, ignoring the rising tide of whispers and giggles among her ladies.

Marie laughed, her joyous spirit a colorful contrast to her mother's sparse wit.

"His vices render him a challenging test of our powers, Your Majesty. If the Court of Love can turn Roger Stancliff into a courteous chevalier, then our skills will become as legendary as Lord Roger's reputation."

Ivy gasped, shocked the countess would be willing to support such a risky endeavor when the troubadours all worked diligently to infuse the notion of courtly love with the idea of unselfish devotion and admiration in its purest form. Roger Stancliff was obviously a craven scoundrel - the antithesis of the romantic ideals Ivy held dear.

The queen narrowed her gaze on her daughter. "Have you fallen prey to Stancliff's charm?"

To Ivy's amazement, sophisticated, worldly Marie de Champagne blushed.

"Of course not." With an airy gesture, the queen's firstborn waved away the matter. "My heart lies elsewhere."

"I am not concerned where your heart lies, my dear, only your person."

The comtesse stiffened. She followed the progress of a hummingbird with her gaze until she finally responded, "Then you may ease your mind, Your Majesty. I only wish to test our abilities by transforming one of Christendom's most heralded lovers."

The queen grumbled but did not argue. She dismissed the royal company, freeing her ladies to walk about the gardens or retire indoors.

Ivy lingered, as did a few others. Gathering her parchment, she overheard Marie's words of reassurance to her queen. "He is here to change his ways, my lady Mother."

Lady Gertrude coddled her ill-bred pet as she brushed past Ivy, muttering under her breath. "He is more likely here to change mistresses."

 

Long after the other ladies had departed the queen's bower, a delicate young woman remained. Graced with pale creamy skin that glowed with good health, she sat alone.

Roger Stancliff counted his blessings as he studied her.

Her pale blond hair escaped its circlet in the slight spring breeze. A white kirtle embroidered with ivy made her seem a part of her surroundings, at one with the encroaching greenery. Her angelic profile drew him as much as her solitude.

The fact that she sat unaccompanied told him several things. Either she was not well-connected at court or she was somewhat of a rebel. Both scenarios suited his purpose, for he needed to befriend someone at Eleanor's elegant court to feed him the information he sought.

Befriend.

The word had an awkward ring. A year ago he would have seduced the girl in question.

Now, thanks to the king's orders that Roger cultivate a more sedate reputation in order to be accepted at Eleanor's court, Roger would have to try to befriend this innocent.

Damn Henry.

The king had been adamant, however. Roger wouldn't inherit the full family holdings if he didn't investigate the possibility of sedition at Poitiers beneath the pretense of courtly love, refinement and heightened attention to manners. Roger could retain the earldom, but the majority of the Stancliff lands would go to their neighbor, William Montcalm, if Roger failed in this. Montcalm had a strong claim to them, after all.

</file>

<file= AmE06_P12>

The duke scowled, the old man's gaze slipping
to find his granddaughter, lying so quietly in
Christian's arms. Something in the old duke's
gaze softened and, after a long moment, he nod-
ded slowly.
"It is time for everything to be brought
into the open. I will welcome an inquiry."
"What will happen to Charlotte?" Beth asked,
turning to look at her grandfather.
"If we are permitted, I will ask that she be sent
away where she cannot hurt anyone again." The
duke's expression crumbled. "Beth, I'm so sorry - 
it's my damnable pride. I wanted to protect our
name. In the end, I didn't protect anyone."
"We all fight pride," Christian said. "I fear very
little else has been driving me." He brushed a
tear from Beth's cheek. "I am sorry about Lord
Bennington."
"He is fortunate to be alive. He was a fool to
think Charlotte would ever be well enough to re-
turn his regard."
Beth sighed. "He really did love her, didn't he?"
"Too well," Grandfather said.
Christian brushed the hair back from her fore-
head. "Beth, I am sorry."
Her brown eyes fixed on him. "For what?"
"I have been a fool. I thought the most impor-
tant thing in my life was finding who was respon-
sible for my mother's death. Now, I realize what is
really important is you."
Her breath caught in her throat. Beth blinked
up into the face of the man she loved more than
life itself. "You love me."
"Desperately. Madly. To distraction and back.
And when we are wed, I will love you even more."
"But . . . your mother - "
He sighed. "I know what happened to my
mother. Sadly, it does not change her fate. But
what I do know changes mine. I am through with
the past. You are my future. You and the love we
share and the children we will have. That is all I
want now. All I'll ever want."
Beth couldn't say a word. She simply reached
up and drew him to her, gulping a sob into the
crook of his neck as she held him tightly.
Behind them, Grandfather sniffed loudly.
"They make a lovely couple, my lord," Jame-
son said, fishing in his pocket for a clean hand-
kerchief. He found one and handed it to the
duke.
"Indeed they do," the duke said, blowing his
nose rather loudly. "They will be even lovelier
once they're properly married!"
Beth caught her breath and peeped up at Chris-
tian, wiping her eyes with a ragged sleeve. "I
need a bath."
He chuckled. "You smell of smoke, as do I."
The duke turned, leaning heavily on his cane.
"Jameson, open the carriage door. We shall return
to the house."
Beth smiled up at Christian. "Shall we adjourn
to the house to get some ointment for your hands
and a bath, my love?"
His eyes lit. "A bath?"
Grandfather snorted. "Someone send to Lon-
don for a special license! Now." He allowed the
butler to assist him into the coach and sent every-
one scurrying to find a blanket for Lady Elizabeth.
"Indeed," Christian said. "I would like to marry
tomorrow morning, if possible."
Beth blinked. "Tomorrow morning?"
"Is that too soon? How about tomorrow after-
noon, then? I shall send to London and have
Reeves bring the necessary clothing." He twin-
kled down at her. "I really must introduce you to
Reeves."
She paused. "Your butler?"
"The one and only." Christian stood, then
reached down and lifted his lady love in his arms,
silencing her protests with a hard kiss. "My father
sent him out to civilize the lost sons he'd ne-
glected, but damn me if all I've seen him do is
marry us off."
"Oh dear, how dreadful!"
Christian smiled down into Beth's eyes as he
carried her to the waiting carriage. "If this is
dreadful, then I want more of it." He gently set
her on the seat of the carriage. "Much, much
more!"

Epilogue

Ah, the joys of wash day! When all the dirt and
horror of the previous week is set to rights, all
with a tub of water and the fresh scent of soap!
A Compleat Guide for
Being a Most Proper Butler
by Richard Robert Reeves
"You requested more brandy, my lord?"
Christian turned from the desk. "Yes. The de-
canter is dry."
Reeves brought a new decanter and set it on the
table. "That is my fault, my lord. You don't empty
it as often as you used to and I am off schedule."
Christian laced his hands behind his head and
leaned back in his chair. "Well, Reeves. It has been
an adventure, has it not?"
"Quite, my lord. Are you satisfied with the out-
come of events?"
Christian grinned. "I am wed to the most beau-
tiful of women. What could I regret?"
"What will happen to Lady Charlotte now?"
"She has been assigned to Bedlam. The duke is
paying a fortune to keep her in comfort there, but
she is secure. She will harm no others."
"I am sorry your adventure was such a painful
experience."
"Me, too. But sometimes one must travel the
rough road to reach one's ultimate destination. I
found my mother's killer and brought her to jus-
tice of a sort. But more importantly, I learned that
my future - and Beth - are more important than
any past I might have had."
"Certainly, my lord," Reeves said. "That is a
very important lesson, indeed." He picked up the
old decanter and placed it on the tray. "Will there
be anything else?"
Christian sighed. "You aren't going to say any-
thing, are you?"
"My lord?"
Christian stood and held his arms out to his
sides. "My clothes."
Reeves looked Christian up and down. "Some-
thing is wrong, my lord."
"Wrong?"
"You aren't wearing black."
Christian grinned. He had donned a brightly
white cravat and shirt. His waistcoat was of deep
red damask. "Do you like it? I am wearing it for
my meeting with the trustees. They are to sign
over the fortune today."
"You look dapper, my lord. I must immediately
congratulate the viscountess on her excellent taste
in waistcoats. You are indeed a fortunate man. Not
only is she a lovely woman, with an amiable dis-
position and an exceptional share of intelligence,
but she dresses you far better than you ever dressed
yourself."
Christian sighed. "Must you do that? Steal all
the glory from my days?"
"Not for long, my lord," Reeves said, smiling.
"I regret to inform you that I must be leaving
soon."
Christian's smile faded. "But . . . why?"
"Between starching your cravats and assisting
you in discovering the errors of your ways, I have
been writing a book."
"A book? On what?"
"How to be a proper butler."
Christian sighed. "I was just a research project
to you, wasn't I?"
Reeves's lips twitched. "I shall dedicate the
book to you and your brother, my lord. I must say,
I have never served two more worthy men."
"Thank you. I am certain my brother will thank
you even more than I."
"Why don't you ask him yourself, my lord?"
Christian paused. "Tristan? He's - "
"The earl and countess are in the sitting room. I
saw their carriage as I was bringing you the de-
canter."
Christian was halfway out the door.
"My lord?" Reeves called after him. "Your
coat - "
But Christian didn't slow down a step. He raced
down the steps and burst into the sitting room.
Tristan stood leaning against the mantelpiece, a
cane in one hand. Tall and broad shouldered, as
blond as Christian was dark, Tristan's face bore the
imprint of the sea upon his tanned face.
His lovely wife, Prudence, sat beside Beth on a
settee.
Beth stood as Christian came to a halt in the
middle of the room. "There you are!" she said,
coming toward him. "I was just meeting your
brother and his countess!"
Christian slipped his arm about Beth. Dressed
in a lovely gown of wine red silk, her blonde hair
luminescent in the sunlight streaming from the
window, the sight of her warmed him head to toe.
"I didn't know we had visitors."
"Which must be why you arrived half dressed,"
his brother said. His deep voice, used to shouting
orders from the deck of a ship over the roar of the
ocean, rumbled noisily. "I never thought I'd see
the day when I'd outdress you, but here it is."
Christian grinned. "Here it is! What brings you
here, you old hellion?"
Tristan drew himself up to his full height. He
was far broader across the shoulders than Chris-
tian, of a heavier frame. "Chris, Prudence and I
came to visit for two reasons."
A delightful color brushed Prudence's cheeks.
"Mainly we came to meet your new bride."
"Yes," Tristan said, pride glowing on his face.
"We also came to inform you that you are about to
gain a new title. That of 'uncle.' "
"An uncle?" Christian looked from his brother,
to his sister-in-law. "But . . . how?"
Prudence laughed, Beth chiming in.
Tristan shook his head ruefully. "I will explain
it to you later."
"No, no! I didn't mean that! I just - when did
this happen? How long have you known?"
"We just discovered it," Prudence said. She sent
a loving glance at her husband. "I hope it is the
first of many."
Tristan reached over and took her hand in his,
pressing a kiss to the back of it. "We shall have an
entire ship full, should it please you, my love."
"One crew member at a time, please," Pru-
dence said archly, her soft brown eyes twinkling
up at her husband.
Christian released Beth long enough to cross to
his brother and envelop the scoundrel in a hearty
hug. "What a wonderful thing!"
Tristan hugged him back, pounding his back
solidly. "You have been married a week or two
now. When will you and your lovely viscountess
grace us with the same news?"
Children? Christian turned to look at Beth. "One
day, perhaps. But for now, I want my wife all to my-
self."
Beth's eyes twinkled at him. "You shall have
me, my love."
Tristan returned to the settee where Prudence
sat, and settled beside her, capturing her hand
and pressing a kiss to her fingers. "Christian, I am
happy to report that the House for Retired Sailors
has grown." He looked at Beth. "Your husband is
something of a philanthropist."
"Yes, he is," Prudence said, smiling sweetly.
"There are over seventy men housed there now."
"It would not be possible without you, Chris-
tian," Tristan said.
Christian shrugged. "All I do is send a bank
draft every quarter. You and Prudence do all of
the work."
Beth slipped an arm about Christian's waist,
leaning against him. "I had no idea you were a
philanthropist, my love."
"Lord Westerville." Everyone turned to find
Reeves standing in the doorway, a coat in his hand.
"You forgot a part of your raiment."
"Oh no," Beth said. "You have wounded Reeves's
sensibilities."
"Yes, my lady. My sensibilities are indeed
wounded." Reeves came forward and assisted
Christian into the coat. He gave the coat a final
smoothing across one shoulder, stood back, then
nodded. "Excellent. I feel better already. My lady,
you have had a very positive influence over Lord
Westerville. He has left the morbid world of Only
Black behind and now embraces other colors of
the spectrum."
Beth peeped up at Christian, a flash of a dimple
tempting him to drop a kiss on her forehead. "I
hope he is ready for my influence for many more
years," she murmured.
Christian held her closer. "You influence my
every breath, my love. And always will."
"Enough of that!" Tristan draped an arm around
his wife. "Reeves, you have performed magic."
Reeves smiled at both couples. "The old earl
would have been pleased."
Christian tilted Beth's face to his. Ever so gent-
ly, he placed a kiss on her soft lips. Magic was
what it was; the best kind of magic - true love.

</file>

<file= AmE06_P13>

"He didn't lay a fang or a claw on me," she said, realiz-
ing that chewing and mauling were just two of several
stomach-churning possibilities she had faced. Her knees
went weak. She wanted to throw her arms around his big
body and feel the warmth and safety of his arms wrapped
tightly around her.
"Why didn't you just shoot the damned thing?" Good-
night planted a hand between her shoulder blades to propel
her back along the path and suddenly realized her hip was
bare. His eyes widened and he halted. "Where the hell's
your gun?"
"I . . . I think I . . ." she said, mirroring his disbelief.
"You what? Forgot it?" He pulled his hand from her as
if she'd scorched it and backed away, emotion swirling in
his face. She couldn't tell if he was disappointed, contemp-
tuous, or just plain outraged. He stalked off down the path,
stopped, then came stomping back to grab her hand.
"Dammit, just when you think you can rely on a woman - 
she starts forgetting her bloody gun!"
An hour later she sat on a fallen tree trunk, clutching a
tin cup containing a shot of brandy. They had walked, then
run back through the jungle along the path she had forged
earlier. By the time they reached the vanilla grove, it was
empty, and they headed straight for the jungle road and the
rest of their party. Between gasps, she managed to tell the
others about her encounter with the jaguar. Itza and Ruz
crossed themselves and clamped their hands over Rita's
long ears. Hedda threw her arms around her niece, and the
professor went straight for the medicinal brandy.
"I've never seen anything like it," Cordelia said, her
sense of adventure recovering more quickly than her
nerves. "It was magnificent. Jaguars are larger than I
thought. At least this one was. And it just stared at me with
those big golden eyes." She looked at Goodnight. "It was
beautiful, wasn't it?"
"Not the word I would use for it." He downed another
shot of brandy."What do you think it means?" Hedda asked, settling
beside her.
Cordelia was unsettled by the question; she had been
asking herself that very thing. A jaguar. Looking her over.
While she was searching for the Gift of the Jaguar. A chill
went through her leaving gooseflesh in its wake, and she
prayed no one noticed.
"It means we're definitely in the right area for jaguars,
probably for ancient jaguar worship and artifacts. It means
that our decision to follow this river was right on target."
She struggled to sound more sensible and objective than
she felt. "It certainly means we push on. I want to see those
'hills with the doors in them.' I can't help thinking one of
those doors will have a carved jaguar head on top."
Determined to put some space between themselves and
the jaguar and hoping to make the promised ruins by night-
fall, they traveled through the heat of the afternoon, stop-
ping only for water and to distribute some hardtack and
jerky from their supplies. Cordelia was once again wearing
her revolver on her hip, Hedda had pulled out her own pis-
tol and loaded it, and the professor hauled out and strapped
on a long-barreled Colt revolver with ivory handles. Every
snap and rustle of vegetation had their trigger fingers
twitching.
As the sun set, shadows spread out over the forest and
the hunters' trail they followed faded into a tangle of un-
dergrowth. Itza and Ruz, unsettled at the prospect of camp-
ing in the deepest part of the jungle, nervously agreed to
push on. The ruins couldn't be far now.
Unfortunately, the burros had other ideas. As the light
faded, they balked and had to be tugged, coaxed, and bribed.
Goodnight finally got the stubborn Rita to move by walking
ahead of her. But every time he slowed enough to come
within range, she nipped at his rear. Cordelia happened to be
looking when Rita finally made contact, sending Goodnight
bolting into some bushes. When he climbed back onto the
path, she spotted something sticking out of his back pocket
and pulled out forgotten twigs and leaves that had been
warmed by his body to an alluring, edible aroma.
"She wasn't being fresh." Cordelia laughed, dangling the
leaves before the ravenous Rita, who began to nibble them.
"She was being hungry." Hedda, the professor, and the Pla-
tanos joined her in laughter, relieved to have a lighter mo-
ment in what was becoming a dark end to a stressful day.
Quiet descended over the party as they plunged over the
final slopes, where recent rains had made footing treacher-
ous. Every member of the party was tensed and trying to
pick out sounds of a big predator's movement from the or-
dinary buzz and rustle in the brush around them. Tension
mounted as the vegetation thinned and they glimpsed a
haze of moonlight ahead.
The high canopy ended and they emerged into a clear-
ing in which a number of strange, cone-shaped hillocks
rose ten to twenty feet and were covered with a rolling
blanket of grasses. The mounds exuded the mystery and
menace of strange shapes glimpsed in a moonlight grave-
yard, especially so when Cordelia spotted odd-shaped
shadows tucked into the sides of some of them. It struck
her that if these were the "hills" the village hunters referred
to, then they were part of a graveyard - one that held the
remains of a civilization.
Lacking both light and energy to begin explorations,
they made a fireless camp in the middle of the mounds and
agreed to start work the first thing in the morning. It wasn't
easy going to sleep in the middle of an eerie ruin that might
hold the key to a great mystery, but as they found their
beds, exhaustion finally took hold of them, one by one.
Cordelia sprang up some time later in the moonlit glow
of her tent with her heart pounding. Without knowing quite
why, she reached for the pistol hanging on the corner of her
cot and sat with her nerves taut and senses straining. It
came again . . . from behind her . . . causing her blood to
still in her veins.
A sniffing, snuffling sound. Loud. Animal-like. Only a
scrap of canvas away. Her hand tightened on the grip of the
pistol as it came again . . . sniff, sniff . . . moving around
the tent . . . on her side . . . sniffing . . . then panting.
She clamped her free hand over her mouth to stifle her
gasp. She glanced over at Hedda, who had turned on her
side and was soughing softly, still very much asleep. Wak-
ing her - startling her and probably whatever was outside
as well - was a bad idea.
She pushed back the mosquito bar and slid her legs over
the side of the cot. Fortunately she had gone to sleep in her
breeches; all she had to do was pull a shirt over her
camisole. Then she reached under her sheet for her boots,
giving thanks again for the old guide who had taught her to
sleep with her boots on her cot. She had taken two steps to-
ward the flap when she saw a shadow moving on the tent
wall to her left. It was low and indistinct, but substantial
enough to be solid.
It didn't have to be a jaguar, she tried to tell herself. It
could be something else.
She slipped outside and turned right, holding her gun in
her right hand and cupping both gun and wrist with her
left. Her heart was in her throat as she rounded the oppo-
site corner, intending to sneak around the tent and come up
behind whatever - 
A gun barrel appeared right before her eyes!
"Aghhh!" She jumped back with a cry.
"George Almighty!"
As Goodnight jerked his gun up, he lurched backward
and tripped over a tent rope. The rifle landed nearby. As he
hit the ground, with his legs tangled in the collapsed rope,
he nearly took the tent down with him.
"What are you doing skulking around my tent this time
of night?" she demanded in a loud whisper, jabbing the air
with her gun.
"Will you point that bloody thing someplace else?" he de-
manded, still tangled but determined to rise. "My nightmare
come true - nearly shot in the middle of the night while com-
ing back from - " He made it to his feet. "Two legs. Count
'em." He pointed toward his feet. "One, two. Not four."
"I heard something," she declared defensively, still
whispering.
"Of course you did. At night this place turns into a
bloody lover's lane for the local four-, six-, and eight-
legged populations." He brushed himself off.
"It sounded like a large animal. Sniffing."
He retrieved his gun and glanced at the ghostly terrain.
"It's probably just this place. It's a little unnerving by
moonlight. And after what happened - "
"I'm serious, Goodnight. There was definitely sniffing.
And panting. The same kind of panting I heard yesterday
when - " She was suddenly distracted by the rifle in his
hands. "You were - you're holding a gun."
"So it would seem." He looked at it as if it had some-
how magically appeared there, but then rearranged his
grip, claiming it. "Our benighted guides have guns, and
even your aunt is packing a firearm. After yesterday, I
didn't think it fair that I was the only member of this expe-
dition unarmed."
"You're prowling around in the dark with a rifle?" She
choked on the last word. "Talk about nightmares. Do you
even know which end to point?"
"I'll have you know, I have more than a passing ac-
quaintance with guns. I am the terror of the grouse popu-
lation of the Lake District." He raised his nose to look
down it at her. "Pheasants quake at the sound of my name."
She erupted in a noise somewhere between a snort and
a giggle.
"Laugh if you will, but someday, you may have to depend
upon my marksmanship." He raised a lofty finger in blatant
parody of himself. "And then I shall have my revenge."
Her giggle became laughter that released something
pent up inside her. The next minute she was smiling at him,
and he was smiling back. It felt good. Very good.

Twenty-one

"I need to check out the rest of the camp," she said. "Are
you coming?"
"I suppose someone has to keep you from shooting at
moons in the forest."
They walked around the tents, checking, listening.
Other than the professor's snoring, all seemed quiet and
peaceful - until they got to the area where the burros were
grazing. There, a ragged panting sound was coming from
the far side of one of the hillocks. Guns cocked and ready,
they inched their way around and found Rita standing with
her back bowed and her belly contracted into an odd point,
panting heavily with each breath.
"Did your 'panting' sound anything like that?" Good-
night scowled.
Suddenly, Rita brayed loudly, sank onto her knees, and
rolled over onto her side. They rushed to see what was
wrong and Goodnight - muttering to himself - checked
her rear quarters and issued a diagnosis.
"She's foaling." He laid his gun against the nearest
hillock and went around to the animal's head. "You'd bet-
ter get the 'banana boys.' "
Minutes later, the Platanos were on their knees beside
Rita, one stroking her head and the other checking the
progress of her labor. Ruz declared the feet were com-
ing . . . he could see a membrane bubble . . . which burst as
a sharp little hoof emerged. But there, all progress stopped.
"Only one leg!" Ruz called to Itza, clearly panicked.
"Only one comes!"
Cordelia knew the word for "one" and "leg" wasn't dif-
ficult to figure out. Goodnight picked up the same informa-
tion and grabbed Ruz by the shoulders.

</file>

<file= AmE06_P14>

Prologue

England, 1819

The earth was sound asleep, lulled by a soft chorus of chirping crickets. Into the soothing surroundings intruded the distant hail of creaking wheels. Fast approaching, a rickety carriage jingled along the pebbled road, each squeak of the axle muffled only by the exuberant squeaks of the wench within.

"Why, ye wily devil." The doxy giggled in her drunken stupor, fumbling with the laces of her corset, trying to fasten the garment in mock gentility.

"Now, now, luv. Let's have none of that."

A robust hand brushed her gawky fingers away from her bosom. She dipped her head back in a peal of laughter, all but toppling off the hard set of thighs she was straddling.

Damian Westmore, the Duke of Wembury, dubbed the "Duke of Rogues" by his peers, was slumped back in his seat, mesmerized by the pair of plump breasts bobbing in rhythm to each lurch and wobble of the carriage. He was in no hurry to see the bountiful mounds tucked back into the shelter of the corset, and with a wicked grin, he cupped one heavy breast, raising the puckering nipple to the tip of his lips, and blew.

The wench giggled, then moaned with pleasure. In a lanky stroke, Damian licked the rosy bud, nipped, then licked again. She bucked in his lap, groaning, the sweet sounds of carnal hunger making him stiff and ready for her.

"Ride me," he growled.

Slipping her shaky hands beneath her skirt, the giddy wench grappled with the buttons of the duke's trousers.

And so the impassioned couple dallied in such a manner for the rest of the journey, insensible to the distraction their fervid voices inflicted on the poor coachman.

It was an hour later the screeching wheels - and voices - came to a whispered halt before the ancient dwelling.

A black leather boot kicked open the carriage door, and out stumbled the inebriated duke.

"Wait here," he gave the rough command to the driver, and then with a seductive growl, ordered the accommodating wench to do the same. "I'll be but a minute, sweet."

With a bubbling laugh, she collapsed against the cushioned seat and rucked her skirt up over her knees. "Hurry back, Yer Grace."

His eyes went to those finely curved calves and glossed over firm, smooth thighs, as she lifted her skirt higher and higher.

Damian could feel the swelling in his groin again. He slammed the door shut to keep himself from pouncing back into the carriage.

"What a bird," he whispered with a devilish grin. But upon pivoting to confront the imposing main doors of the castle, he found his humor had quickly vanished. "Let's get this over with."

Stumbling up the stone steps, he rattled the handles. Locked. Blast it! He pounded on the mahogany entrance, cursing all the while at finding his own doors secured against him.

"Jenkins!" he bellowed for the butler.

One door opened. "Your Grace," came the stoic greeting, followed by a curt nod of obligatory respect.

Petulant after hammering on the door for some time, Damian demanded sharply: "Where is she, Jenkins?"

"In the parlor, Your Grace."

Damian stepped into the dark entranceway and slammed the door closed with the heel of his boot. "Take me to her."

Candle in hand, the old butler complied, and progressed through the stone-clad foyer and into the deserted corridor.

"What time is it?" snapped the duke, his deep blue eyes peeking into each of the desolate drawing rooms.

"It is shortly past nine o'clock."

"So where the devil is everyone?" And then the piercing table corner jabbed him in the thigh. "And why the hell is it so bloody dark in here!" he blasted, and promptly kicked the insolent table for having found itself in his direct path.

Jenkins, not the least perturbed by his master's display of temper, evenly answered both questions in sequence. "Her Grace has temporarily relieved some of the staff, and requested all but essential lights be extinguished."

"Well, I am the master of this castle." He pointed to his chest. "And I have not dismissed the staff nor ordered the house to be enshrouded in darkness. So fetch the servants back and light some infernal candles!"

"Yes, Your Grace."

The butler resumed his steady pace through the corridor, the fractious duke wavering in tow.

The servant soon paused before the sealed parlor door and proclaimed: "Her Grace has been expecting you."

Damian just bet the old nag was expecting him. Three days ago, his mother had dispatched a courier with a letter bidding him home urgently. He snorted. Urgent, his bleeding ass. He was accustomed to the woman's skullduggery, and this letter was just another one of her shams.

It seemed his mother had no other purpose in life but to disrupt his own. First had come the scathing lectures on propriety and responsibility and other such reprehensible nonsense. Then, when she'd learned of the hedonistic revelry reigning within the walls of his ancestral keep, she'd packed her bags, abandoned London, and moved back into the castle, forcing him to search for amusement elsewhere - which he found readily enough in the many dens of gamble and drink.

Now, unable to follow her son into the lairs of decadence, but still intent on reforming his immoral ways, his mother had resorted to luring him out of his havens through such feeble means as a fabricated crisis. Well, he'd not stand for it a moment longer. The next "urgent" letter to reach him would find its way into the nearest fire. He'd tolerate no more of the woman's interference, and he intended to tell her so that very night.

"Would you like me to announce you, Your Grace?"

"Not this time, Jenkins."

The butler gave a stiff nod and moved away from the door. "I am sorry, Your Grace." And with those cryptic words, he retreated down the corridor, the aura of candlelight receding with him and finally disappearing around the corner.

Damian stared down the shadowed passageway. "Babbling old fool."

A senile Jenkins was soon dismissed from his mind. There was still his mother to confront, and with a deep breath to help sharpen his befuddled senses, Damian flung open the parlor door.

Emily, the Dowager Duchess of Wembury, sat poised by the low-burning fire, her stern face aglow, her fingers knit tightly together in her lap. She spared her son a brief glance before her lethargic gaze returned to the snapping flames.

"At least you're appropriately dressed," she said.

Damian examined his attire, unable to recall what he was wearing. He noted he was arrayed in all black. Boots, breeches, greatcoat fluttering about his ankles. All black. And with his long ebony mane secured at the nape of his neck with a strip of leather cord, he appeared every inch the dark devil so many had termed him.

Eyes elevating to his mother, he realized for the first time that she, too, was adorned in sable black. He had seen her in such macabre garb only once before, when his father had died.

"What's happened?" he asked, some suspicion still enduring in his voice, for he had yet to determine whether this was a ruse of some kind.

"You haven't heard?" Her eyes abandoned the fire to concentrate on her son. "Here I thought grief had delayed your return. I am such a fool. So where have you been these last three days?"

He said nothing. That seemed answer enough.

The hollow sound of her laughter filled the dimly lit room. "A trollop has kept you well entertained, I see." She shook her head and returned her attention to the flickering flames. "I should have known. How could a man like you even mourn?"

Damian stepped deeper into the room. "Mourn?"

The newspaper spread out at his mother's feet went sailing through the air, landing at his.

Pirates Strike Again!

Damian stared at the bold headline, his vision blurring, his head beginning to throb.

"What the hell is going on?" he demanded, this time more passionately.

"A matter of little consequence to you, I'm sure. But my life is over - now that Adam is gone."

Upon hearing his younger brother's name, Damian went still, very still. The room appeared to be spinning. Shadows mixed with the soft orange glow of the fire and whirled before him in a maddening dance.

He brought his fists to his eyes and barked impatiently, "Where is Adam?"
"Dead."

His fists fell to his sides, and he looked at his mother in disbelief.

"He was sailing home with Tess," she recounted, her eyes still fixed to the hissing flames. "The ship was plundered by pirates. The vagrants took everything of value, bowed to the passengers in mock gratitude for their generous gift, and then aimed their cannons for the ship's hull. No one survived, save the captain's cabin boy, who clung to a piece of debris until he was rescued by a passing ship. The boy had time to relate the entire tale before a fever took his life."

Damian's dancing demons were back, clogging his vision, his mind. He brought his fingers to his temples in an attempt to slay them. But it did no good. They danced and laughed and chanted: Adam is dead! Adam is dead!

He closed his eyes, willing the racket in his head to stop. Memories of Adam on his wedding day flashed through Damian's mind. It was the last time he had seen his brother. He remembered Adam now, all clad in his finery, that silly grin on his face as he prepared to marry his childhood love, Teresa. It had been the talk of the ton that the duke had arrived sober to the ceremony. But even he, impenitent sybarite that he was, would never blight the most important day of his brother's life. Damian had come to the event to support his sibling, for he loved his brother, more than he cared to admit. Two months had gone by since Adam and Tess had embarked on their wedding tour of Italy. And the couple was expected home within a matter of days.

His chest ached; his heart grew sore. Damian opened his eyes and connected with his mother's somber gaze.

"It's all my fault," she said.

"Yours?" He breathed raggedly. "How?"

"It was I who begged your brother's return. Adam wrote to say he and Tess would remain another month on the mainland. They were happy in Italy. But I was miserable. You were disappearing for days and weeks at a time. The stories reaching my ears of your dissolute ways were growing more obscene. So I wrote back to Adam, pleading for him to come home as planned. I had hoped he could reason with you again. He always managed to pull you away from your wretched habits, if only for a short time ... but now he's gone."

The woman's apathetic features cracked. Her bottom lip quivered. Fat, soulful tears hung from her sooty lashes before dripping down her flushed cheeks.

"My son is gone." She choked on her words, her glossy eyes pinned intensely on her only living child. "Your father was a scoundrel, you are a villain, but Adam ... he was the last noble thing in my life."

In that instant, every morsel of strength he had known his mother to possess crumbled before him. She sank to her knees and let out such a sorrowful sob, it echoed throughout the room, burning his ears. It was as though the walls themselves were wailing, the din was so great, and Damian found that even his hardened heart could splinter after all.

"Why?" she cried. "Why did it have to be Adam? Why could it not be you lying at the bottom of the sea?!"

And so she surrendered to her hysterics, crumpled onto the floor in a pool of black satin and lace.

Damian watched her for a time, knowing she would scorn any pitiful attempt on his part to comfort her.

</file>

<file= AmE06_P15>

Movement in the doorway turned his head. Pamela stood
next to the silk screen watching him. Her gown was a deep
crimson with a full sweeping skirt and low décolletage
trimmed with creamy lace. Tendrils of her blond hair curled
around her shoulders.
He felt the glide of her eyes, and if his reaction was any-
thing less than any other male's, she didn't appear shocked.
"Your dressing room door was open," she said.
David stepped out of the hip tub, sloshing water to the
floor. "The door wasn't open."
"It was unlocked." Her gaze shot back to his as he walked
toward her. "I had a key?" She dangled a metal object in her
hand.
"Convenient." David snatched the key from her hand.
"For your information I knocked," she said, as he reached
over her shoulder and yanked the robe he'd draped across the
screen. "You weren't answering the door. I was worried. Es-
pecially after everything that has happened. I wasn't expect-
ing you to be here."
David slid on his robe. "Where have you been since yes-
terday?"
"Is there a rule that requires me to spend the night here?"
"Don't even ask me to begin to understand that answer.
Ian was worried about you. I told him I would check in on
you."
"The local magistrate is here," she said, folding her arms.
"He's asking questions about you. I believe he is on his way
to London with the intent to find evidence that will declare
you a fraud. Especially after he was refused admittance to
Rose Briar an hour ago. Something about your orders?"
He belted the tie around his waist. "Is that all?"
"Do you want more?" Flashing him a smile that was part
coquette and part street doxy, she nodded to the tiny bite
mark on his neck. "Though I see someone has already been
inside your clothes."
His eyes hard, he trapped her gaze. Despite everything she
projected, he knew some of it was an act. He just never knew
for sure which part. "Do you fancy yourself the whore,
Pamela? Or are you so used to the part you play that you no
longer know the difference?"
David stepped past her into his room. She leaned a shoul-
der against the doorway as he passed. "Even after all of your
reassurances to Ian and me, you're still in love with her,
aren't you?"
His hand shaking slightly, he withdrew a crystal decanter
of whiskey from the sideboard, as if alcohol could burn away
his thoughts. "Love has nothing to do with what is between
Meg and me."
"Then you're in lust. For most men, I'd say there is no dif-
ference. But not you." She approached in a whisper of crim-
son silk. "Have you considered she's not the same woman
she used to be?"
"People don't change that much."
"You did." She flicked a long scarlet nail at his robe. "You
once had no qualms about killing a man in cold blood. From
what I understand, yours was the shot that took out the
treacherous grandson of the Prussian archduke in Munich.
How many years ago? Thirteen? Fourteen? What a scandal
you caused in the international community," she prodded
sweetly. "The identity of that assassin still remains a secret."
David didn't question how she would know that manner of
confidential information. "Obviously not."
"If there was any job dark and dirty to be done, they called
you. How old would you have been when you fired that shot?"
He'd been twenty-two when he'd pulled that trigger and
ended the conspiracy to assassinate the queen. Twenty-four
by the time his reputation made him one the most sought af-
ter agents in the service. Twenty-six when he met Margaret
Faraday.
He'd seen her the first time on a polo field at the British con-
sulate in Calcutta. The beginning of the end to his way of life.
His sin and his salvation.
His curse.
"I'll be away for a week or so." He sloshed whiskey into a
glass. "Maybe longer."
"Now? You're leaving now?"
"I have personal business to attend." Without offering her
a glass, David peered at her over the rim as he drank. "You're
our liaison with Kinley. While I'm gone, I want you to find
out where Faraday has been living for the past nine years,
who was paying the cost and how many of his former cronies
are still alive."
"Why?"
"Oh, I don't know, Pamela," he said facetiously, aware of
his sarcasm and the mood driving at him. He was impatient
to be on the road. "Maybe it has something to do with the fact
that someone may have tried to kill me and shot Faraday's
daughter instead."
"What makes you think you might have been the target?"
"She was wearing my cloak." David studied the bottom of
the glass. "Why would someone shoot the one person sus-
pected of knowing where a fortune in jewels and gold is hid-
den?" He set down the glass. "Even if shooting someone at
six hundred yards was Faraday's modus operandi, after nine
years in prison he would be fortunate if he could hit the
broadside of a barn at twenty feet."
"There are only a handful of men in England who could
make that shot." She smiled temperately. "Since your where-
abouts could be accounted for, maybe less than a handful."
David shut the cabinet door none too gently. It was never
easy to keep his patience with Pamela, and he sometimes won-
dered why she provoked him so, as if she always had something
to prove, especially when he was sharing the same assignment
with her husband. He walked to the bedroom door and swung it
wide. "I don't intend to be gone long," he drawled.
She stopped in the doorway. "You still haven't explained
why you are you leaving."
"I have a son, Pamela. Now" - ignoring the knot in his
stomach, he offered her an indulgent smile, inviting her to
leave - "for my safety, go."
"A son? I see," she said after a moment. "I'm sorry, David."
"For what? It isn't your fault that no one knew."
"What shall I tell Mr. Munro about you? He isn't happy that
you have seen fit to steal Rose Briar out from beneath him, and
now you have barred him from seeing Lady Munro. I warned
you when you came here that you needed to be careful of him."
"Usher Nellis out the door." He started to turn then hesi-
tated. "Then after you have finished contacting Kinley, do a
little background investigation on the magistrate while he is
in London. I want the history on Rose Briar and why he
wants that property so badly."

Chapter 13

"Good gracious, child." Esma met Victoria as she
entered the kitchen and put a hand to her cheek.
"You're still feverish. It's only been a week. What are you do-
ing out of bed?"
"Determined to remain on my feet." Victoria set Zeus on a
chair and watched the cat dart straight for the bowl of cream
on the floor. "Sir Henry isn't in his room."
"He is in the herbal, mum."
Victoria accepted a cup of hot tea. She disposed herself as
comfortably as possible on a stool and watched Esma begin
cutting carrots for supper. "Has Sir Henry spoken to you
since last night?"
Esma shook her head. "He has kept to himself since Lord
Chadwick left to fetch Nathanial."
Victoria hurt, and the ache had nothing to do with her in-
jury. David had sent no messages. Despite her want to push
him out of her head, his absence as much as her concern for
her son's welfare kept her awake when she'd needed to rest.
Sir Henry had continued to care for her wound, though he
had shut himself away from the deeper one in her heart.
She loved Sir Henry like the father she'd never had. He
was the only grandfather Nathanial would ever know. She
had no right to ask for his forgiveness, but he'd had a right to
know the truth no matter the cost to herself.
When he had come to change her dressing yesterday, she
could no longer bear the lie. She told him about her marriage
to David in Calcutta ten years ago, from whom she had been
running when she'd left India and met Scott Munro's widow.
She could find no words to express her sorrow for the hurt
she had caused.
Yesterday had been the first time since her mother had left
her that she opened herself so completely to another human
being. How much of that honesty Sir Henry would choose to
share with the world was up to him. It was enough that people
would learn that Nathanial was David's son.
This morning she had risen to change her own bandages.
Laughter outside diverted Victoria's attention to the win-
dow. Mr. Rockwell and Bethany were in the yard with the
mare Bethany had been nursing back to health, just as she
had been caring for Victoria.
Frowning, she set her teacup onto the saucer. Other than a
dimple on his cheek, Ian Rockwell, Foreign Service agent,
had nothing to recommend to a sunny seventeen-year-old.
"He has done nothing untoward, mum," Esma said, read-
ing her mind as if she had spoken her doubts aloud. "My
William told me Mr. Rockwell knows about horses, and that
girl loves that horse."
"Bethany should be with other young people her age."
She should have a new dress every once in a while and at-
tend teas and other social functions that allowed her to meet
nice boys.
"And when might that be, mum?" Esma scraped the car-
rots into a pan of water. "She hasn't said another word about
the Yule soirée this year. She knows we cannot afford fabric
for a new gown. But it's a shame you'd not ask Lord Chad-
wick to sponsor her."
"I can't do that, Esma."
"It's not my place to ask what has happened between you
and Sir Henry and His Lordship. Maybe Lord Chadwick's
coming here has not been such a good thing. It is a shame to
be sure. I like that young man." Her housekeeper changed the
topic. "But since he did open up the manor house, you should
speak to Lydia Gibson about returning to Rose Briar. The
household doesn't have anyone cooking for them."
"They did, until you insulted the cook yesterday."
Esma waggled the knife in her hands. "If you count boiled
chicken a meal. Those men up there need nourishment and I
can't be leaving here to feed them."
"Mrs. Gibson is caring for Mr. Doyle - "
"Mr. Doyle will be over the moon if you asked him to ready
the bulbs in the orangery for spring planting. There's many of
us what would be mighty beholdin' to His Lordship to see
Rose Briar come alive again like it used to be around here in
spring. It would do all of us good, including you, mum."
Except David's purchase of Rose Briar meant nothing to
him. Looking down at the cup in her hand, she absently
touched a chip on the once-flawless ivory porcelain. How
could she explain to Esma who David really was and his pur-
pose here? She could not even tell Esma if David planned to
return Nathanial or that she would not even be here come
spring. People should not ask impossible things of her.
Esma quit chopping and set both hands on the wooden
block. "None of us ever asked what ye were runnin' from all
those years ago, because some things don't need to be talked
about. But you've been here a long time, and we are family
now. If ye wish to talk, not a word of it will ever leave my lips."
"You and William have always been so good to me, Esma.
But I fear this is something I must figure out how to fix my-
self.

</file>

<file= AmE06_P16>

"Give me one reason why I should respect you. For heaven's sake, Puker, you're holding a gun on me.
You've shot at me, you tried to run me down!"
"It wasn't anything personal, Mary Lisa," he said. "I got some really nice photos from
that car hit, made five grand on them. See, it was just business. Now, shut up and keep
driving."
"Where are we going?"
"Go past Pepperdine."
Should she floor it? Crash her car, maybe draw a cop? Not here, not yet.
Pepperdine University stretched across the hill to her right. The beautiful Pacific and
Amarillo Beach sprawled out to her left. They passed Puerco Beach.
"Hey, Mary Lisa, look here!"
She jerked her head toward him, fear and fury in her eyes, and she knew he saw it. He
was grinning wildly as his camera clicked rapidly in burst mode, then quickly dropped it
to his lap and brought his gun back up, this time shoving it against her neck.
"No, you aren't going to do anything stupid or you're dead."
She trembled with rage, couldn't help reaching out to claw his face, screaming at him,
"You disgusting little creep!" He lurched against the door, out of the way of her nails.
She jerked the car onto a narrow winding canyon road she knew dead-ended about a
quarter of a mile upland. But she couldn't wait for that. She jerked the Mustang off the
gnarly asphalt through a ditch onto an empty stretch of level rocky ground and mashed
down hard on the brakes, throwing both of them forward. The momentum sent her head
slamming against the steering wheel.
Mary Lisa didn't want to open her eyes, she really didn't, because she knew
somewhere deep inside that Puker was still there, but she had to. Thank God he hadn't
shot her. She jerked up, felt pain slice through her head and nearly passed out again. She
felt wet on the side of her face and knew it was her blood.
"Hey, you coming back to reality, Mary Lisa? You were out of it a good two, three
minutes. I got some good shots of you unconscious, face against the steering wheel, a
trickle of blood snaking down to your neck. Real quality photos. Time to get yourself
together now, Mary Lisa."
For a moment, she didn't understand. They were moving, she felt the wind on her
face. Puker had shoved her over onto the passenger side. He was driving now. Thank
God, he'd tossed her purse over onto the floor, at her feet. Thank you, God, thank you.
"Where are we?"
"Moseying up Coral Canyon Road. It's nice and quiet up here. I picked it because of
the great views and the interesting houses. They'll be background. Hey, nice wheels.
I'm glad I got some shots of you behind the wheel." He tossed her a Kleenex from a
packet she kept in the glove compartment. "You're a pain in the ass, you know that?
That stunt you pulled - you could have killed both of us. You knocked yourself out.
Wipe off your face. I want you perfect."
Why hadn't he been hurt when she'd slammed on the brakes?
She wiped the blood off her face. Her head throbbed right over her left ear, but it
didn't matter. What to do next?
"Okay, we're going to stop here. Isn't this a panorama? A lovely windswept hill with
the ocean in the background, or we could use some of those houses higher up the slope.
I'm getting out with the keys now, Mary Lisa. I want you to slide over here into the
driver's seat and smile at me, your hands on the steering wheel. We're going to take
more shots of you." He paused a moment, and she was terrified at the look in his eyes.
"If you try anything again I will shoot you dead right here and leave you for the
coyotes, you understand me?"
"I understand you. When did you go from annoying paparazzo to nutso psychopath?"
"I'm not a psychopath! You've pushed me and pushed me and now I've got to go
further than I'd planned. Move, Mary Lisa, get behind that wheel. Now!"
He waved his gun at her. She wondered how good a shot he was, not that it mattered
since he wasn't more than a foot away. She grabbed up her purse, dropped it on her lap,
and moved over to sit in the driver's seat of her Mustang. Her heart was beating so loud
it sounded like drums in her head. She turned to smile at him, praying he wouldn't
notice her purse and wonder.
Now he was standing maybe three feet away from her, too far to hit him with the
Mustang door if she pushed it open hard. "How's this, Puker?"
"That's good. Move around, turn your head this way and that, look happy, Mary Lisa.
That's right, you've done this before. Give me big smiles, lots of teeth. Keep both your
hands on the steering wheel." He snapped over a dozen photos of her.
While he did it, she slowly eased one hand off the steering wheel and dipped it into
her purse. She felt the cold smoothness of her SIG.
"What are you doing with your hand? Dammit, bring your hand back up on the
steering wheel!"
"Sure, Puker," she said, pulled up her gun and fired. His camera flew out of his hand,
shattered by the bullet, and landed hard against an outcropping of jagged rocks by the
roadside.
"You bitch!"
He was dancing he was so furious, looking from her to his smashed camera and
waving his gun around. She fired again, and missed, unaccustomed to a moving target.
Puker pulled his trigger as she flattened herself against the car seat; she heard the
metallic clang of the bullet going through the car door and slamming into the leather
seat.
Good, he hadn't been to the firing range. She lurched up and again aimed for his arm,
but he was flailing backward, trying to find some cover and shoot at her at the same
time. She missed again.
He fired back but she was down and slithering across to the passenger side door. She
managed to get the door open and fell headfirst to the ground. Another bullet pinged
into the car over her head. How many bullets did he have in his clip?
She scrambled on her hands and knees toward the cliff about three feet away. It was
her only hope, no other cover anywhere near. How far a drop was it? It didn't matter.
He could be coming around the car to put a bullet in her head.
She'd lived with terror for so long, but at that moment, she wasn't afraid, she was
angry, and getting angrier by the second.
She looked back over her shoulder to see him running around the back of her car,
panting hard, the gun shaking in his hand. Soon, he'd be so close, he couldn't miss. A
bullet struck the ground beside her elbow, sending up a spray of dirt.
"I missed you on purpose, Mary Lisa! You stop now and don't move, or I'll put the
next bullet into your head, you got me?"
"Sure, Puker, I got you."
She fired over her shoulder toward the sound of his voice, barely looking back, and
heard a blessed yelp as she rolled off the edge of the cliff.
JACK heard the gunfire and thought he'd croak right there. He revved the Suzuki dual
sport he'd commandeered in the Tia's Tacos parking lot and hauled ass up the narrow
road. He saw the red Mustang at an angle off the road, the passenger door open, not
many feet from a cliff edge. He saw Puker Hodges in the hazy sunlight standing at the
edge of the cliff, a gun in his hand, looking down. Blood was streaking down his left
arm.
Jack saw him raise the gun.
He roared forward, them slammed on the front and rear brakes, sending the bike into
a controlled slide. When it stopped, he threw it down and started running, his gun
drawn, ready to fire as soon as he was close enough.
All Mary Lisa could think about as she tumbled down the hillside was that Bernie was
going to freak when he saw all these cuts and bruises no makeup would camouflage.
She smashed hard against a scrub bush, felt pain roar through her, felt every bone rattle
in her body. But hurt didn't matter, nothing seemed broken. Good.
"Mary Lisa!"
The twiggy branches of the scrub dug hard into her flesh but it was better than
tumbling over rocky ground. She slithered farther down, putting the bush between her
and Puker atop the cliff. Would he try to come down?
She was ready, but she had to see him. This time she had to do it right. He appeared at
the cliff edge, staring down at her, his gun in his right hand, fanning it all around.
"Hey, you dead down there, Mary Lisa? You all broken up?"
He crouched on his knees and peered over the edge of the cliff.
Her eyes met his. Mary Lisa aimed exactly as Elizabeth had taught her and very
gently caressed the trigger. He wasn't dancing around now, he was perfectly still, their
eyes locked. The bullet struck him in the chest. He didn't make a sound, simply
disappeared from her sight. Mary Lisa felt a punch of shock in her gut, and pulled
backward for a moment. But then she jumped to her feet, ignoring the pain broadcasting
from every uncovered inch of her body, and began crawling back up the cliff. She saw
Jack, who nearly knocked her backward, he was trying to get down to her so quickly.
"Oh God, Jack, you came! Puker, I shot Puker."
"I know. I've got his gun. He's up there. Come on, let's get back up."
Once they heaved themselves onto level ground, Mary Lisa scrambled over to Puker.
He was lying on his back, his breathing shallow. He was still alive.
She came down beside him. He opened his eyes, looked up at her. "You broke my
camera. It was my best one, a Nikon, top of the line."
"Why'd you want to kill me?"
Remarkably, he laughed, not much of a laugh because of all the liquid rattling in his
throat. "I wasn't trying to kill you before, just get a little revenge and make a whole lot
of money at the same time. Frightened starlet, purple prose, close-up photos of you so
panicked you looked ready to freak out. Like I said, it was business. That restraining
order, Mary Lisa, that wasn't fair. A guy's got to make a living, you know?"
"So there never was a Jamie Ramos?"
It looked to her like he grinned as blood dribbled out of his mouth.
From the corner of her eye, Mary Lisa saw Jack on his cell phone. She ripped off the
bottom of her T-shirt and pressed it into a knot against the bullet wound. "I really can't
stand you, Puker, but I don't want you to die. I don't want to be the one who killed
you."
He was crying now. "I don't have my camera - a picture of this would make me a
fortune."
"Yeah, right, that's the way to think. Hang in there, Puker. Help's on the way."
His eyes closed and a second later his head simply fell to the side. She pressed her
palm hard against the wound. "Don't you die on me, you jerk!"
Jack shoved her away. He felt for the pulse in his throat for a very long time, raised
his face to her, and shook his head. "You did what you had to, Mary Lisa. You saved
yourself. I didn't get here in time. I'm proud of you. As for your gun, I'm going to
bronze it and put in on the mantelpiece."

</file>

<file= AmE06_P17>

The prospect of going up to town alone presented one small, cowardly instant of relief. Life would be
much simpler if he didn't have to explain a wizardly wife.
But much greater were his regret and shame. He liked having Abby nearby, even though he'd been
keeping his distance.
And in the midst of a serious discussion, he was having trouble not thinking about the night they had
shared in this bed, and how warm and sensually responsive she had been. If he leaned forward...
Focus. He needed to overcome his cowardice and talk to his wife. "I don't want to go to London by
myself. I want to go with you." He grimaced. "I've been behaving badly. The problem isn't you, it's me."
"Of course it's you," she said, unimpressed by his willingness to take the blame. "We were getting on
rather well, I thought, until you kissed me and sensed the energy flow around us. You have magic, but the
merest suggestion of that sent you running like a fox fleeing a pack of hounds. I don't know how long you
can hide from this side of your nature, but not much longer, I suspect."
"No!" You have magic. Just hearing the words made his stomach knot. "I'm no wizard. Once I had
some interest in such matters, as boys do. Perhaps I even have a little power, since you claim to have
used it during the healing. But I lost all interest in magic at school. I want nothing to do with it."
"Lost interest or were bespelled?" Her expression was grave and perhaps pitying. "Your reaction to
the thought of having power is so fierce, so different from your usual temperament, that I have to wonder
if a spell was cast to make you hate your magical nature. Did Stonebridge cast such spells to ensure that
its students would walk the path their parents chose for them?" She paused for emphasis. "If so, do you
want to live your life controlled by what others wanted for you?"
Panic washed through him, flooding his common sense. Panic so great that underneath, the small part
of him that was still rational wondered at its intensity. Abby had said nothing that should frighten him - 
unless she was right and someone had tied knots in his mind.
He managed to choke out, "You're only guessing that someone put a spell on me. You can't know for
sure. I bear the strongest anti-magic spell known on my own flesh."
Abby's dark brows arched. "There is no spell strong enough to block a wizard of my strength for long
if I truly wanted to break through, but I have not done so. It would be very bad manners."
And a betrayal so great as to end any chance they might have had at a real marriage. Thank God she
was wise enough to know this, or their marriage was already doomed.
But he wanted a real marriage, and despite his fear, he wondered if she might be right about the spell.
"If I were to grant you permission to explore my mind, how do I know that you won't plant a spell of
your own?"
Her full lips tightened. "You would have to trust me. I suppose that is asking too much, given that we
are still more strangers than not. But there is another way. You can explore your own mind. Now that I'
ve told you that you might be the victim of a suppression spell, you might be able to find it on your own."
He frowned. Though he would rather not have his mind invaded, he doubted that he would find
anything there that he hadn't noticed for the last twenty years. "Even if I could find evidence of a
suppression spell, what could I do about it?"
"It is an offense against nature for a spell to block a person's deepest self," she said slowly. "Even the
most powerful wizard has trouble creating a suppression spell that can last indefinitely. I doubt you could
have been controlled in that way if you hadn't been a boy when the spell was laid on you. You grew up
not realizing that a vital aspect of your spirit had been suppressed. Now you are a man. If you look
inward and find such an unnatural barrier, you might be able to break it down. Or if you give me
permission, I could help you do so."
He did trust Abby, he realized. More than he trusted Colonel Stark, who had wielded discipline at the
Stonebridge Academy with such unholy satisfaction. But..."I don't want someone else poking around
inside my mind. Even you."
"I understand." Her voice was gentle. "Are you sufficiently offended by what was done to you that you
will look for yourself?"
Even the thought of probing his mind for alien magic caused another spike of panic. Which meant, he
realized, that he had no choice but to look inward, no matter how painful the process. "More than
sufficiently offended. But how does one study one's own mind?"
"Imagine some kind of scene," she replied. "Perhaps a place you know and find comfortable. A
meadow, a familiar house, perhaps how you imagine life would be if you were a fish under the sea."
"A fish?" he asked, temporarily sidetracked.
She smiled. "What you choose is only a metaphor. Move through the scene in your imagination, and if
something feels wrong, look closer."
That seemed simple enough. What to imagine?
For some reason, his thoughts went to a beech wood on the estate of a friend he'd visited several
times in the Cotswold. Beeches didn't grow in Yorkshire, and he had been fascinated by the dense
canopy of leaves that blocked most sunlight. Because of the deep shade, few plants grew and the floor
beneath the beeches was layered with a thick, yielding carpet of fallen leaves.
The peace and mystery of the beech wood had made a lasting impression. Sometimes he'd dreamed
of it in Spain, on the eve of battle. Closing his eyes, he imagined himself among the massive trees. All was
as he remembered, at first. If the beech wood represented his mind, he was comfortable in it. And he
walked without pain, without crutches or canes.
Then he felt a tug of wrongness. Frowning, he followed the feeling. The majestic trees gave way to
crooked saplings that were jammed together unhealthily. The trunks were as close as fence railings - as if
they had been designed to conceal.
Wondering if a spell might be hidden in this dark corner of his beech wood, he forced his way
between the crooked saplings, shouldering trunks aside by sheer force when necessary. He would not
have been able to make his way through real trees, but his imaginary world had the qualities of a dream
even though he was awake.
The farther he penetrated into the rank, unhealthy woods, the colder the air, the harder it was to
breathe, and the greater his fear. By now it was clear that Abby was right. The fear was artificial, created
by something outside himself. That didn't mean that he didn't feel looming terror, but he refused to let
himself be affected by it.
Impatient at his lack of progress, he swung his arm and knocked all the trees in front of him to one
side. They fell with splintering crashes to reveal a pair of iron doors set into a steep hillside. The doors
were circular, as if concealing the mouth of a cave. He recognized deep wrongness. With sudden fierce
certainty, he knew that this portal was the source of the blind panic that throbbed through him like a
mortal injury, urging him to flee for the sake of his sanity.
Clenching his teeth against the panic, he studied the pattern embossed on the doors. The design was
elusive, an ever-shifting matrix of shadows and sinuous lines, mysterious and seductive.
Dizzily he recognized that the pattern was sucking him down like a whirlpool. As he fell into the design,
he sensed horrors waiting on the other side of the door.
Swearing, he shook his head and looked away, knowing that if he continued to look into the pattern he
would lose all will and determination.
Abby. The mere thought of her steadied him. As the vertigo faded, he realized that if he'd ever
accidentally found these doors, that sorcerous pattern would have pulled him down into paralysis.
Perhaps he had been here over and over, and each time the memories had been wiped from his mind.
But this time he had been warned, and he would not lose himself to a wizard's spell. Not here, not in
the middle of his own soul.
Eyes averted, he reached out and flattened his left palm on the iron door. The jangling energy was
deeply unpleasant, but he forced himself to maintain the contact while he analyzed what messages the
door held.
This door - this spell - had been cast at Stonebridge, he realized, and by none other than Colonel
Stark himself, with the assistance of his second in command. The old devil had set up a school to
suppress wizardry while being a wizard himself!
Deep in the metal, he felt an echo of the colonel's torment. Magically gifted, the man had grown up
loathing himself. Ironically, the one way he had been free to use his magic was as a tool to cripple the
power of the young boys placed in his care.
Jack could almost feel sorry for him. Almost, but not quite.
Are you sufficiently offended? Abby had sent him into the darkness of his own mind to seek
wrongness, and he had found it. Was she also right that he might be able to destroy the spell himself
because his magical nature yearned to be free? What would be strong enough to break down these iron
doors?
Anger. Deliberately he reached deep into himself to find rage.
He had learned early to let go of anger because it did him no good, but now he collected all the
suppressed furies of his life. He harvested the baffled misery of the times his father beat him for no
reason. The rage engraved on his soul by the cold menace of Stonebridge Academy, and the torments
inflicted by the most twisted of the prefects. The anguish of a small boy being punished unjustly, and his
towering rage when he'd cursed God for allowing good men to die meaninglessly.
When he had gathered his life's burden of fury and outrage, he laid both hands on the doors and let his
emotions blaze through his palms like Greek fire. The doors exploded, white-hot shards flying in all
directions.
He barely noticed the shattered fragments of the spell because they were trivial compared to the
energy that blasted loose from the bonds that had trapped it so long. He staggered back under the
cascading power, feeling as if his skin was being seared away.
His left shoulder burned like the fires of Hades, worse than the time a musket ball went through his
upper arm. He clawed at the pain frantically, yet pain was matched by wild exultation. A hole in his soul
he hadn't known existed was being filled.
He felt as if he were too close to an exploding shell. He was in the heart of a whirlwind, tumbling
frighteningly free, uncertain where he would land. Or how hard he would hit.
Ka-bang! He smashed into a hard surface with an impact that jarred his bones. Dizzily he wondered if
the fall was real or in his mind.
"Jack!" a voice called. "Jack!"
Abby's voice. He blinked his eyes open, and found himself flat on his back on the cold floor. His wife
knelt beside him, her expression shaken. "Abby?"
"Are you all right?" She began to skim her hands several inches above his body. "I felt your energy
shift. Then you began flailing about and fell off the bed.

</file>

<file= AmE06_P18>

Crossroads, North Carolina
 
January
 
Before the accident, I never had to seduce a man in the dark. I dazzled millions in the brutal glare of kliegs on the red carpets of Hollywood, the flash of cameras at the Oscars, the sunlight on the beaches of Cannes. Beautiful women don't fear the glint of lust and judgment in men's eyes or the bitter gleam of envy in women's. Beautiful women welcome even the brightest light. Once upon a time, I had been the most beautiful woman in the world.
Now I needed the night, the darkness, the shadows.
"Put the gun down," I ordered, as I let my bra and sweatshirt fall to the ground. Behind me, a full, white moon hung in a sky of stars above the winter mountains, silhouetting Thomas and me. My breath shivered in the cold air. Beneath my bare feet, the pasture grass was brown and frosted, glistening in the moonlight. There were no other lights in our world, not the pinpoint of a lamp in some distant window, not the wink of a jet high overhead. There might be no other souls in these ancient North Carolina ridges that night. Only Thomas, and me, and the darkness inside us both.
"I'm warning you for the last time, Cathy," he said, his voice thick but firm. He wasn't a man who slurred his words, no matter how drunk he was. "Leave."
I unzipped my jeans. My hands trembled. I couldn't stop staring at the World War II pistol he held so casually, his right arm bent, the gun pointed skyward. Thomas had been a preservation architect; he respected fine craftsmanship, even when choosing a gun with which to kill himself.
Slowly I pushed my jeans down, along with my panties. The scarred skin along my right thigh prickled at the scrape of denim. I angled my right side away from the moon, trying to illuminate only the left half of my body, my face. Half of me was still perfect. But the other half ... 
I stepped out of my crumpled clothes and stood there naked, the moonlight safely behind me. The night breeze was a tongue of embarrassment, licking my scarred flesh. My hand twitched with the urge to cover my face. How badly I wanted to hide the awful parts. Thomas watched me without moving, without speaking, without breathing.
He doesn't want me. I said quietly, "Thomas, I know I'm no prize, but would you really rather kill yourself than touch me?"
Not a word, still, not a flicker of reaction. I could barely see his expression in the shadows, and wasn't sure I wanted to. Shame washed over me like a cold tide. Me, who had once preened for the world without a shred of self-doubt. I turned my back to him, trying not to shiver with defeat. "Just put the gun down. Then I'll get dressed, and we'll forget this ever happened."
I heard quick steps behind me, and before I could turn, his arms went around me from behind. His hands slid over my bare skin. I twisted my head to the pretty side but he bent his lips to the other and roughly kissed the ruined flesh. I cried with relief, and so did he. No matter what might happen to us later, I saved his life that night. And, for that one night, at least, he saved mine. Hope is in the mirror we keep inside us, love sees only what it wants to see, and beauty is in the lie of the beholder.
Sometimes, that lie is all you need to survive.
Chapter 1
   
 
Thomas
Ten Months Earlier
 
The Day of the Accident
 
It was never a good thing when I woke up at sunset on a Saturday in the back of my pickup truck in the cafe's graveled parking lot. I had a fierce hangover, and I'd spent all day snoring in a sleeping bag in the truck's rusty bed. Not long after settling in the Crossroads I'd proudly rescued the truck - a sixty-year-old Chevrolet - from a mountain junkyard. I was an architect, not a mechanic, but since my specialty had always been preservation I couldn't resist the challenge.
Admittedly, my rusty but classic Chevy deserved better than to spend its weekend nights under the cafe's giant oak trees. The trees housed a large clan of bad-ass squirrels who crapped on the truck and on me. They were now cheerfully showering the truck, and me, with rotten acorn shells as they did their spring housecleaning.
When shell fragments bounced off my forehead I opened my bleary eyes. I nearly gagged when I recognized the musky, ballsy, bad-feta-cheese scent that filled my nose. Squinting, I stared up into the face of a small, white goat. He stood beside my head, placidly chewing. Bits of black plastic fell from his lips. Like a dog enjoying a bone, he was demolishing my new cell phone.
"There goes another one," I grunted. I brushed acorns and cell phone pieces out of my beard. "Tell the concierge I have some complaints about the wake-up calls in this hotel. If the maid service doesn't improve I'll have to remove myself to the comfort of my cabin when I drink. Can't a man sleep all day in his truck without being disturbed?"
Crack. Banger, the goat, looked at me innocently as the last section of my phone disintegrated between his teeth. Fragments of the casing dribbled from his hairy white lips. I sighed. "I didn't want that phone, anyway."
If my brother would just stop sending me replacements, Banger might switch to something more nutritious, like hubcaps. John, up in Chicago, was determined to keep me from becoming a full-fledged Luddite. As long as I owned a cell phone, he thought there was a chance I might not end up writing crazed manifestos by lantern light in my cabin. Or shooting myself.
I was confident I wouldn't do the former.
Stretching carefully, I gave every body part plenty of warning that we were about to move as a team. Sour stomach, greasy eyes, aching head, stiff back. The rest of me was only thirty-eight, but after a few hours in the truck, my back always qualified for the senior-citizen discount.
A rumble filled my ears. I looked up, squinting, as a big, late-model SUV rolled past, heading for the cafe's last available parking space. Well-dressed children gaped and pointed at me from behind the SUV's windows. Mom, what's that scary-looking man doing in that scary-looking truck with that goat? A woman pivoted in the passenger seat and stared at me, then mouthed something to the kids. Don't stare. It's not polite to stare at wildly bearded mountain men who sleep with livestock. We don't want to provoke him.
Whatever she really said, it made her brood sit back quickly and look away from me. I lifted a jaunty hand and waved. Beauty, after all, is in the eye of the beholder.
My personal cache of beauty could all be found here, at The Crossroads, a small cove high in the remote mountains of western North Carolina, where an old paved road known as the Asheville Trace and an even older, unpaved road called Ruby Creek Trail intersected in front of a cluster of buildings - a former farmhouse, an old log cabin, a string of whitewashed sheds, and a pair of gas pumps under a tin awning. Grocery, gas station, post office, thrift store, diner, and more. All of it known by one name that summed up the spirit, the sustenance, and the turning points of the lives that met there.
The Crossroads Café.
I was not necessarily an upstanding citizen of the Crossroads, but I had earned the respect of the people who mattered there. Or, at least, their tolerance.
I suddenly realized my long, brown beard was wet. And also my head, and my ponytail, and my face, and, when I lifted my beard, the front of my vintage New York Giants jersey. Soaked. Someone had doused the legacy of Hall-of-Famer Lawrence Taylor. Sacrilege.
That's when I noticed the note tied to Banger's collar. Written in black marker on a piece of torn cardboard with a Dixie Crystals logo still visible on one edge, it said:
 
Thomas Mitternich,
You get your behind into my kitchen by 6:30. Cathryn is on TV then. Tour sore eyes need the sight. Don't make me come back with more water.
Love, Delta
 
Cathryn Deen. I'd never met her, but of course, I knew who she was. Everyone knew who she was. A bonafide, glamorous movie star. Not much of an actress, but what difference did that make these days? She was drop-dead gorgeous and adorably perky, her movies made fortunes, photos of her appeared every week on the covers of major magazines, she'd recently married some swaggering mogul, and now she was launching her own cosmetics line. Pygmies in the Amazon and Mongolian yak herders living in straw huts on the Russian tundra knew who she was. Even in the Crossroads, one of the most secluded mountain communities on the Eastern seaboard, people could tell you Cathryn Deen's favorite color (emerald green, like her eyes,) her favorite hobby (shopping in Paris,) and what kind of flowers (white roses flecked with 24-carat gold,) had decked the gazebo at her very expensive, very private Hawaiian wedding.
What people in the Crossroads couldn't tell you was why she never visited the farm she'd inherited from her grandmother, north of the Cove, or why she never replied to the cheerful, friendly birthday and Christmas cards sent to her by her devoted, distant cousin, Delta, owner of the cafe and unofficial mayor of the Crossroads. To me and everyone else who lived in the secluded mountain valley, Delta was a queen. To Cathryn Deen, Delta was obviously nobody.
I didn't appreciate her attitude.
Wincing, I eased out of the truck and stood up. After a polite glance in all directions, I stepped between the truck and the oak, pulled up my water-dampened jersey, unzipped my jeans, and urinated on the oak's protruding roots. "Take that," I said to the squirrels and Cathryn Deen.
Banger dropped my ruined phone and hopped down from the truck. He affectionately stomped one hard, cloven hoof on the toe of my running shoe and butted my left knee, hooking one horn through a hole in the denim and into the tender center of my kneecap. I saw stars for a minute.
When my head cleared, I scrubbed a hand over his floppy ears. "If there is a God," I told the goat, "He appointed you to be my conscience."
Carrying a fresh Giants jersey and clean briefs - when you regularly wake up in public, it's a good idea to keep a change of clothes in your truck - I limped from under the tree. The fine, crusher-run gravel of the parking lot was a delicate material, as granite goes, yet it still managed to make ear-splitting sounds.
I tried to tiptoe, but it didn't help.
A cathedral of sky and mountain opened over my head. I took a couple of reviving breaths. Evening light cloaked the Cove in soft blue shadows; the Ten Sisters Mountains, circling the Cove like the thick rim of a bread bowl, glowed gold and mint-green above filaments of silver mist. I made my way to an old church pew that served as a garden bench beside the paved road. Sinking gratefully onto the weathered chestnut wood, I exhaled. The Trace meandered past, its aged gray surface cracked and pockmarked, its fraying edges gently disappearing into low green clumps of thrift sprinkled with tiny lavender flowers.
The Asheville Trace hinted that modern horsepower could get you to Crossroads and back to civilization without packing a lunch. Coming from its namesake, Asheville, of course, the Trace wandered out of the Ten Sisters along their foothills, curled through the grassy Cove, then yawned past the cafe before its intersection with Ruby Creek Trail.

</file>

<file= AmE06_P19>

Marcus licked his lips. The soft, intimate smile vanished. He looked predatory. Large, male, and dangerous.

For twenty-four years, she'd lived in strict propriety, not raising a ripple of scandal, but, as bold as a jade, she strutted in front of her lovely bed. Then she blushed, and hid her face.

Marcus levered up onto her bed, landing in the middle with a bounce. Beneath the green canopy, his eyes became a richer turquoise. Amusement glowed in them as he held out his hand. "Climb aboard, temptress."

The mattress dipped as she crawled to his side. With one arm beneath his head as a pillow, he reached out in invitation. She tumbled on top, and he pulled her into his commanding kiss. She met his open mouth with her lips parted, dueled her tongue with his. Her hands roamed - over solid chest, hard nipples, tracing the beautiful planes of ribs and muscle.

She let her fingers play over his stiff cock, touching stickiness and finding a damp trail on the curls below his navel. Wrapping her hand around him, she gently squeezed. Her hand barely closed around him, her fingernails grazed the soft heel of her hand.

She bent, enticed by his scent, by the fascinating beauty of his cock, and explored with her tongue. So velvety, but hard. A luscious taste - his fluid sour, the light hint of his urine, and such a heady scent. She flicked her tongue over veins, along its intriguing spine. Then stopped.

He groaned as though in pain. "Don't stop now, my sweet." His lids half-covered his eyes, his mouth tense. Sharp lines framed his lips, deep sexy lines. Dark stubble shadowed his jaw.

Her heart lurched in her chest as she gazed at his handsome face. "But am I doing it as I should? As good as Rosalyn?"

"Rosalyn is a professional. You, my dear, are a goddess."

Venetia kissed the tip, licking up the salty, rich fluid there. "You aren't in pain, are you?"

"Repeated erections without relief cause a lot of pain. Nature's way of encouraging a man to get on with it and make love to a woman."

"I want you to make love to me - the way you said."

He slid off the bed and she watched him walk across the room, to the box of toys on the secretary. The sheets were heavenly soft against her bare skin. He rifled through the box as her breathing sped up.

"What are you looking for?" she asked.

"This." What he held between his fingers was too small for her to see.

He lifted the candle that stood there. The flame licked toward him as he carried it.

"Are you going to put it out?"

"No, light another. I want to see you, temptress." He lifted the white taper from the brass holder and put the wick to the candle on the bedside table. It sputtered and caught. Two flames from one fire.

Even the way he dripped the wax to the saucer on the table was elegant. Hot, white, molten droplets splattered. He set the base of the candle into the puddle. Then he sat on the edge of the bed. "Do you know I was so jaded I once visited a woman who bound me up and dripped hot wax on my chest."

She shouldn't be shocked - she'd seen Belzique's pictures - but she was. Marcus seemed to be waiting for her reaction. He stroked the sheets beside her shoulder, plucking at the cream silk, not touching her. As though he would not dare touch her until she spoke.

Even with the candlelight, she couldn't see his shadowed eyes.

Keeping her voice even, she asked, "And that was arousing?"

"Not in the least. Highly recommended by Swansborough but I didn't see the fun myself. But I was willing to try anything."

She glanced at the candles. "You don't want me to drip wax on your person do you?"

He smiled ruefully. "Never, Venetia. And I'd never hurt you." He turned his hand palm side up. A glass vial rested there. "Oil. To ready you for me. Are still willing to trust me?"
CHAPTER TEN

"O f course, I trust you, Marcus. You've protected me, denied yourself pleasure to be with me." From beneath a tumble of sherry-red curls, Venetia's hazel eyes glowed with innocence.

"Denied myself pleasure?" Mystified, Marcus repeated what she'd said, trying to understand it. "I've denied myself nothing." He hadn't meant it to sound curt. Abrupt. Surprise showed in her eyes, confusion in the tremble of her lip.

Silk whispered as he drew the sheets down from her body, displaying her like an exquisite work of art. Dropping them in a puddle just below her feet, he bent and kissed her expressive mouth. Her fingers slid up into his hair.

But she broke the kiss. Her bare breasts rose and fell with frantic breaths. "What do I do?"

"Turn over and display your lovely bottom to me."

She rolled over onto her tummy, onto folded arms. Golden light bathed her plump cheeks, her smooth, full thighs. Shadows enhanced the curve of her spine.

He held the vial of oil under the candle's flame until the glass was warm to his touch. He drew it back, flicked open the stopper. A spicy scent filled the room.

"Mmmm." Venetia breathed in and squirmed seductively on the bed. He watched her lush derriere sway over the shimmering sheets and his throat parched.

She knew how to tempt. She knew it instinctively.

Marcus tested the oil with his baby finger, which actually shook. His heart had never pounded so hard before sex. Tipping the vial, he watched a droplet gather, then fall. It splattered on the shadowy cleft beneath Venetia's cheeks, rolled into the warm, dewy valley

He parted her cheeks, revealing her puckered entrance, tightly closed. He poured a stream of oil there. It flashed like molten gold and she arched her hips off the bed with a happy squeal.

"Oh, that tickles!"

He massaged the oil, circling and stroking until her muscles relaxed enough to let his fingertip within. A considerate lover would start slowly with the first finger, working with great patience to ready her ... 

She twisted to look at him. Lust and need and a plea for more burned in those entrancing eyes. He winked as he straddled her smooth thighs.

"Now?" she whispered. So much tension in her voice.

"Relax, temptress." A caress of his hand down her spine and she purred once more. "There will be pain, because of your innocence, but it will vanish, and you will know the most exquisite pleasure. My experience," he added wryly, "has to be good for something."

That left her bewildered, he saw. Braced on his arm, he stretched out, balancing his weight. His cock bumped her slippery cheeks. Blood drained from his brain, filling his prick to bursting.

He rasped, "Touch yourself."

Her hips lifted, her slender hand slid along silk sheets, dove down between her thighs. "I'm soaked," she confided.

God, yes. "Stroke your clit as I enter you. The pleasure there will ease any pain. I'll start with fingers - "

"I want your cock."

Her bold words set him on fire. He fought for control.

Her leg slid up the sheets, knee bent, as his finger went deep. In and out into her tight heat until it was swallowed up to the last knuckle. Over the spiciness of oil, the smoky scent of the crackling fire, Marcus breathed in the musk of her pussy, the earthy scent of her ass.

Venetia rubbed her fingers over her quim. "Oh! When I stroke myself as you do that - it's wonderful!" She was grinding her finger over her clit - no shyness about touching herself. He dared to try two fingers.

She arched her head back and moaned. Her tumbling curls shivered over her back, glinting red and gold like flickering flame. On a whimper, she took both his fingers in.

He shouldn't do this - he could pleasure her with his mouth. His cock throbbed but - 

"Oh, it's good now."

All the air squeezed from his chest. He pumped his fingers in and out with slow, steady strokes, her muscles clutching him tight. His throat was raw from panting as he fucked her derriere with his fingers. She was slick and open now.

Ready for more.

Three fingers. Almost the thickness of his cock.

He'd expected her to lay still, to be cautious and demure. Instead she thrust her bottom up to him, sawed her fingers against her pussy, turned and clawed tangled hair from her face. God, he'd no idea she would be so driven by lust. So wild.

Heavy-lidded, her eyes burned with lust. "Give me your cock," she moaned. "I want you inside. Oh, please."

Bone-hard, his cock hurt as he pushed it down, forcing it to touch her slick, hot entrance. He had to pause, his hand on her bottom, to steady himself. But she drove back into him, almost bending his cock for one excruciating instant before the head surged by the tight rim with a pop. Pleasure roared over him like a flame. He heard her cry, his deep groan of heartfelt pleasure.

He drew back, pulling his throbbing tip back to her rim. Not enough to withdraw, enough to let her grow used to him. His biceps bulged, his forearm was rigid with the strain of supporting his weight.

"Move with me, temptress," he urged, "Rock with me."

There was no shake of her head. No plea that he stop. He eased in, one more delightful inch. Then another. Her moans encouraged. She began to chant, "Yes, yes, oh yes."

Yes. Muscles quivering, he gave slow fluid strokes.

Her curvaceous bottom was in the air, her legs splayed, her pose receptive. Welcoming. Three long thrusts and his cock was buried deep, engulfed in fire and velvet. His groin struck her cushioning cheeks with each plunge. She cried loud with every thrust.

She wrapped her hand delicately around his forearm, slid down and found his hand. Her fingers, sticky with the rich honey from her quim, twined with his.

It was his undoing.

His controlled veneer fell away like his dripping sweat. He thrust like his goddamned life depended on it. His mouth twisted with grunts, growls, and fierce moans. His sweat rolled down his brow, coated his back, ran down to his lips.

Beneath him, Venetia was a wanton, fiercely pounding her bottom along his prick, ravaging her quim with one hand, holding his fingers with the other. Even half-mad as he was, crazed with the fight not to come, even as he hovered on the brink of orgasm, he reached down, joined his hand with hers at her pussy and rubbed her clit.

She screamed his name. Shattered beneath him. Inside her scotching derriere, her muscles clutched at him. Control, control, control. He clung to the mantra as he watched her come. Exquisite. Beautiful.

Between her thighs, her hand stilled and he knew she was feeling the climax pulse around her fingers.

The thought had him almost over the edge.

He drew his hands away from hers, splayed them on the bed as he slowly withdrew. His cock twanged upwards once free, glistening in the candlelight, drenched in oil.

She turned her face to the side. Tears spilled on her cheeks but a smile touched her lips. His heart lurched. Damp with sweat, her red hair spilled over her shoulders, a wash of dark fire over perfect, flushed curves. Her eyes were dreamy. As though he'd given her a glimpse of heaven.

"It was so ... so intimate, so perfect having you inside."

"I want to make it even more intimate, Venetia." He stroked the sensual curve of her naked back, unwilling to stop. He didn't want this to end. "I want to do more. I understand if you don't want to. If you need to rest."

"More intimate? Of course I want to try!"

Venetia reached out for Marcus' hand again.

</file>

<file= AmE06_P20>

Digger trotted along happily, sniffing at crab shells between
the crevices, returning to nudge my hand with his nose. I felt dead inside, as flat and lifeless as week-old
roadkill, my eyes barely seeing the lovely houses of Commercial Street, hardly noting the raucous calls of
the gulls as they wheeled and glided above me.
The boys cooked lunch and dragged out an old game of Trivial Pursuit and even took Digger to the dog
spa for a little pet pampering. And while I knew I couldn't hide out here forever, I was glad for this little
reprieve. Instead of waiting around for other people to decide how my life was going to turn out, I had at
least taken action.
That night, as I lay listening to the sounds of the ocean, I tried to make peace with my situation. Digger
crept onto the bed and licked my tears as I sobbed quietly for the love that I'd very nearly had, for the
humiliation I felt, for the empty, hollow days that were waiting for me back home.
Somewhere in the night I resolved to go back to Eastham and face things. Sam would probably come
over to break the news to me, and I'd have to be dignified and strong and somehow let him know that I
would be just fine with everything. I'd start work and engross myself there. And someday, I'd find
someone else.
But for now, I gave myself one more cry in the dark over Sam Nickerson.
THE NEXT DAY, THE BOYS PUT MEto work. In the morning, we draped and taped the salon,
which was a vast room featuring a Steinway grand piano and a wall of French doors that led to the small
beach. The boys had decided to go from hunter-green to royal-blue, and we donned our painting clothes
and set to work. Actually, their painting clothes were on par with my best stuff, but that was just their
way.
It was good to be focused on something as mundane as painting. It didn't take a great deal of mental
effort, but I had to pay attention, too. The guys gossiped about friends I didn't know, taking great pains
to tell me the whole background story so I wouldn't feel left out. Dipping the brush in the pure white paint
I was using for the trim, I wished my whole life could be repainted the pure, empty color.
"You know, princess, sometimes things really do happen for the best," Curtis said rather abruptly,
interrupting Mitch's dialogue on a friend's terrible taste in men. He gave Mitch a meaningful look.
"Yes, you're right," Mitch replied blithely. "Millie, don't you agree?"
"What exactly are you talking about?" I asked, dragging my brush along the baseboard.
"Maybe you and Sam weren't meant to be," Curtis said rather smugly.
"I guess," I said, my chest aching dully.
"He wasn't good enough for you, anyway, dearest," Mitch murmured gently.
I gave a choked laugh. "Not good enough for me? Sam - "
"He broke your heart, after all," Curtis put in.
"He's a good man," I said, my throat closing up on the words. "Very, very good." I dipped my brush
back into the bucket and swallowed.
"Oh, I don't know. I always thought he was a little dull," Curtis said.
"No, he - " I started to break in.
"Yes, rather unremarkable in conversation. You're right, darling," Mitch agreed lovingly. "He may have
looked good in uniform, but aside from that, he was rather ordinary."
"Hear, hear," Curtis sang. "Not like that arm candy you were seeing earlier this summer, Millie."
I straightened up, bewildered. "Sam's - "
"And of course, Millie, if he left you, then he's obviously very stupid," Curtis said almost gleefully.
"And he probably couldn't kiss worth a damn. Officers of the law never can," Mitch added, his lips
twitching.
"Stop it," I ordered. "Sam is the best man I know! He's kind and smart and funny and thoughtful, and if
he dumped me for my sister, then he's only doing what he thinks is best for his family, which means he's
also unselfish and decent. And he's agreat kisser, not to mention fantastic in bed. So shut up." I tossed
my paintbrush on the drop cloth next to me and glared at them.
"There's something else he is," Curtis said, more gently.
"And what's that?" I snapped.
"He's here."
I froze, staring at Curtis and Mitch. My heart stopped, then surged almost up my throat. I swallowed.
Swallowed again. Very quickly, I sneaked a peek behind me. Yup. Sam. Standing in the doorway.
"He's got flowers," Curtis whispered. "And he's smiling."
I tossed Sam another quick peek. It was true. But still I stood with my back to him, my knees trembling
violently. I folded my arms across my chest to hide my shaking hands.
"Hi, Millie."
At the sound of Sam's quiet voice, my eyes flooded with tears and I put my hand over my mouth. Curtis
reached for Mitch's hand.
"Fantastic in bed. That's good to hear." There was a smile in Sam's voice. I heard his footsteps coming
closer.
A bouquet of yellow roses appeared in front of me. Sam stood so close behind me that I could feel his
warmth. "Turn around, Millie," he whispered.
"What about Trish?" I managed to force out, my voice choked and squeaking.
"Turn around and I'll tell you."
I looked at Curtis and Mitch for courage. They were teary-eyed, too, clutching hands as if they were
about to meet Russell Crowe on the set ofGladiator. Curtis gave me an encouraging nod.
I turned around.
Sam's arms went around me and he kissed me hard, fast, and then just crushed me against him. He
dropped the flowers to hug me tighter, and my heart flew so high and fast that I could actually feel it
move in my chest. I heard a shuddering intake of breath from the other side of the room. Apparently so
did Sam, because he looked up.
"Guys, come on," he said. "A little privacy?"
"Oh! Of course. Terribly sorry." Mitch, smiling a wonderfully huge grin, led a happily sobbing Curtis
from the room.
Sam kissed my forehead and then stared sternly at me. "I've been looking for you," he said, a little smile
creeping onto his face.
"You must be a lousy cop," I said a little breathlessly. "I'm not that hard to find."
"I had to take care of a few things first," he answered. "Come on, let's sit down."
He led me to a sheet-covered couch and sat, pulling me down next to him. "This has been a hell of a
week," he said, running a hand through his graying hair. Then he sighed and gave me a smile that was half
sad and half relieved, and my heart lurched. He took my hand and grew serious.
"In answer to your question, Trish is now over the Atlantic, on her way to Paris."
From the kitchen came a muted whoop. Sam grinned and shook his head. I smiled back, still dazed at
his presence. I was here with Sam. My mind couldn't seem to get further than that.
"Millie, I'm sorry you were hiding out up here, thinking what you must have been thinking. But I had to
straighten things out with Trish before I could take care of you. I mean, she did get a pretty big surprise,
finding us like that. And she's Danny's mother..."
"I know."
"That asshole Avery dumped her, and she panicked. She didn't think she had any choice other than
coming back to the Cape. So she convinced herself that we should give our marriage another try."
At that moment, Curtis came scurrying in with a beautiful tray of Brie and crackers, grapes, a bottle of
wine and two glasses. "Pretend I'm not here," he whispered, expertly pouring the wine. He flashed a
brilliant smile and scurried back out.
"Good friends you've got there," Sam said, watching him retreat. I picked up my glass and took a long
sip.
"Curtis and Mitch saw you at the Forge - "
"Yes, we went there for dinner. It was too hard to talk about things at home, with Danny around, and
we wanted to go somewhere where no one knew us. Your friends are crappy spies, by the way. Too
bad they weren't listening. They could have saved us a lot of time." He smiled at me, and I cringed,
remembering how I had ordered my friendsnot to eavesdrop. "Katie told me that you came here, and
what you were thinking."
"Well," I said, looking down at the Persian carpet, "one does draw conclusions when one hears that
one's boyfriend is kissing his ex-wife, who also happens to be one's sister."
"Um, right. And I did kiss her. But I kissed her goodbye." Sam leaned back against the couch and ran a
hand over his face. "Trish said she wanted to get back with me, and I told her two things. The first was
that I just didn't buy it. I'd never made her happy before, and there was no reason to think that I would
now. And after she'd calmed down, I think she could see that, too." Sam sat back up and took my
hands in his. He looked at me, his gentle eyes sad. "She just didn't know where else to go. She's never
been on her own before."
It was true. My sister, at age thirty-six, had never lived alone. A sudden stab of pity for her pricked my
heart.
"Then there was the other thing I told her." Sam's voice broke my reverie.
"What was that?"
"I told her that I loved you." His eyes were steady on me. Even as my heart leaped at his words, a
trickle of sadness tempered my joy.
"That must have been hard to hear," I whispered, looking down. Poor Trish. It was the first time in my
life that I'd ever thought of her that way. Alone. Confused. Rejected. I took a deep breath. "So what is
she going to do now? Is she really headed for France?"
"Yes. She's always wanted to go there, always wanted to see more of the world than South Bend and
the Cape."
I nodded, thinking of Trish's many tirades about how there was more to life than sand and salt.
"I sold the house, Millie," Sam said quietly.
"Sam, no! Not your house!"
"It's done," he answered. "I sold it to the bank, not quite for market value, with the promise that Dan
and I can stay until he leaves for college next year."
"Sam," I whispered, my eyes filling.
"No, it was the right thing to do," he said. "Millie, don't cry."
"You love that house," I said. "It was your parents'...."
Sam smiled, then pulled me back against him and kissed the top of my head. "Of course I love it. But it
was Trish's house, too. In a way, it was hers more than it was mine. And she deserved half of it, no
matter what the divorce papers said. So now she has plenty of money, hopefully enough to last a good
long time, and she can find something that makes her happy. And I can put some more in Danny's
college fund, too."
"You're too good," I whispered, wiping my eyes.
"Millie, this thing with us..." He turned to look at me and cupped my face with his hands. "We started
out fast, but I think we should maybe slow down. It's not your average relationship, being with your
ex-sister-in-law. But I love you, Millie, and I want to be with you. Be patient with me, okay?"
"Okay," I whispered, my heart so full of love and happiness that it didn't seem there was enough room
in my chest to hold it. "Oh, Sam, I love you."
He kissed me, a slow, sweet kiss that was new and home at the same time. When I opened my eyes,
Sam was smiling at Curtis and Mitch, who were peeking around the kitchen door.

</file>

<file= AmE06_P21>

CHAPTER I
last days of summer
august 28, 7:23 p.m.
"So."
"Yeah?" I say. But I already know what she's going to say. She's asked me the same exact question every day this summer. And the answer is always no.
Maggie's like, "Did he call?"
"You need to get over yourself," I say, "because it's not happening."
The prospect of starting senior year next week without a real boyfriend is the worst. Not some math dork or physics geek I end up liking just because he's there. I mean a boyfriend who's everything I want. The whole package.
"Sara," Maggie says. "Do you realize what this means?"
I decide to ignore her. Maggie has this idealistic image of romance that I don't think exists in real life. I mean, I've been trying to believe it does all summer. But Dave never called.
"This can only mean that he's planning something huge," Maggie says.
"Colossal," Laila says.
"So huge it's gonna blow your mind," Maggie says.
Dave's this new guy who transferred to our school from Colorado at the end of last year. This gorgeous Greek-god type on the basketball team. Ever since he sat next to me at the junior meeting - out of all the prettier, more popular girls he could have sat next to -  I've been waiting for him to make a move. We talked a few times after that, but nothing major happened. So when he asked for my number on the last day of school, of course I wrote it in his yearbook, thinking he was going to call me like the next day. But then . . . nothing. Maggie keeps insisting that he likes me, but if he's so interested, why didn't he call?
I hate that a boy is making me feel this way. And I hate that I'm letting it happen.
I go, "Next topic!"
Maggie turns to Laila. "How long do you think it'll take him to ask her out?"
"He'll do it the first day," Laila says. "Second, tops."
"Can we get back to the game?" I say. "Can't Fight This Feeling" plays through the Putt-Putt Mini Golf speaker system.
Laila goes, "Fine. Favorite scary-movie scene."
"Oooh!" Maggie says. "That's a good one!"
"I try," Laila says.
I smack my hot-pink golf ball way too hard.
"I know mine," Maggie says. "It's from that one Freddy movie where he's under the girl's bed? And he slices through it and . . . like she falls underground or something. I forget how it went. But I woke up with scratches all down my neck."
"Hey!" Laila says. "I remember that! Wasn't that, like, in eighth grade?"
"I think so."
"Wild," I say.
My golf ball bounces off a plastic pink flamingo and, confused, rolls back to me.
Even though we're all best friends, we basically only know each other about eighty-five percent. That's why we made up the Game of Favorites. Once we got past our standard favorites, we moved on to asking the most random questions. Where you find out the meat-and-potatoes stuff you usually never get to know about another person.
I would go next, except the only scary-movie scene I can think of is the one where Dave dies of laughter over my even considering the remote possibility that he might like me. So I tap Laila's golf club with mine and say, "I pass. Your turn."
Laila has to think about this one. Her golf ball glides past the flamingo and stops right next to the hole. She plays mini golf perfectly. Just like she does everything else perfectly. She even had the perfect summer, interning at Overlook Hospital. She's going to be a pediatrician. Every single person in her family is a doctor. Except her brother. But that would be because he's eight.
"Okay," Laila says. "Remember how we rented An American Werewolf in London last Halloween?"
"Yeah?"
"And remember when they realize they're walking on the moors when they're not supposed to?"
"Um . . ." I glance at Maggie. She makes a face like, I have no idea what this girl is talking about.
"So scary," Laila says.
Maggie looks me over. "So how much weight did you lose?" she asks.
"Like five pounds."
"And what did you eat again?" Laila says.
"Just . . . you know. Less." All I wanted to do was fit into my jeans from tenth grade. And now I'm there.
"Don't do that again."
"Why not?"
"If you had any idea how much starving yourself damages your metabolism - "
"Hey, Laila?"
"year>" "Yeah?"
"But I look good, right?"
"Yeah."
"So there you go," I say. "And I didn't starve myself. I ate stuff."
"Like what?" Maggie says. "Two rice cakes and a carrot?"
"For your information I also had some lettuce." The truth is, I imposed a personal embargo against my daily Dunkin' Donuts fix. But Laila and Maggie don't know how bad my addiction to icing was, and I'm embarrassed to admit it. It's shocking what cutting out junk food can do for you.
We walk over to the next course that has this impossible windmill.
"Okay," Maggie says. "Goals for senior year."
"Simple," Laila says. "I'm going to be valedictorian."
"Oh, what, salutatorian isn't good enough?"
"No. It's not."
Laila's always had this problem with being second at anything. Her dad is this total control freak. Laila can't do anything after school and she's only allowed to go out on weekends and she can't even date anyone. I don't know how she survives.
"Actually?" I say. "You're supposed to state your affirmations in the present tense. As in, I am valedictorian." I've been reading this book called Creative Visualization. It's all about creating the life you want by imagining that it already exists. Since my second goal this year is to achieve inner peace, I'm focusing on what I want my life to be.
Laila's like, "Wait. Is that more of your Zen enlightenment hoo-ha?"
"Yeah," I tell her. "It is. And it works."
"Well, good luck overcoming the legacy of Michelle," Maggie tells Laila.
"Seriously, it's like she has this special-order brain that comes preprogrammed with every piece of useless information you need to ace high school." I rub my golf club on the plastic grass. "But if anyone can beat her, it's you. You go."
"Thank you, I think I will. Next?"
"I'll go," Maggie says. "I want to be smart."
"You're already smart!" I insist.
"No, I'm not. Not like you guys."
I concentrate on examining the waterfall at the end of the course. Because what she's saying is kind of true. Not that we would ever tell her. It doesn't even matter, though. I'd trade my brain for Maggie's body in a second. Not only is she a drop-dead gorgeous blonde, but she's had a string of drop-dead gorgeous boyfriends since seventh grade. Maggie also has more clothes than anyone I know, including the popular crowd. She was even friends with them until junior high. As long as you meet their two requirements of being beautiful and rich, you're considered privileged enough to hang out with the inner circle. But Maggie's also sweet and loyal and will fiercely defend me to anyone who looks at me the way they did. They even told her to stop being friends with me because it was damaging her reputation. Good thing Maggie iced them. And I'm embarrassed to admit it, but their rejection still hurts.
"I'll prove it," Maggie says. "Who'd you get for history? "
"Mr. Sumner," I say.
"See? I got Mr. Martin. They even have smart and stupid history!"
"You're not stupid!" we both yell together.
"Whatever."
"So," I say. "How - not that you aren't already smart because you are - but how are you going to do that?"
"You'll see," Maggie says. "Okay, Sara. What's your goal?"
Here's the thing: I want to reinvent myself this year. I've been a nerd since forever. My life for the past three years has been the same tired routine. Same honors classes with the same set of ten kids, same endless piles of homework, same waking up the next day to do it all over again. I'm tired of waiting for my life to begin. Something has to happen. Like an amazing boy. I know he's out there. I just have to find him. And it would be awesome if that boy was Dave.
"I'm going to find a real boyfriend," I say. "Someone who's the whole package."
They both look at me.
I'm like, "What?"
"Nothing," Laila says.
"What?"
"Nothing. It's just . . ."
"What?"
"I'm just wondering where you intend to find this perfect male specimen. Haven't you already gone out with all the halfway acceptable guys we know?"
"She's only had two boyfriends," Maggie says.
"Exactly. She's exhausted the supply."
"Yeah, well . . . that's why I'm thinking about getting to know guys in other classes," I say. "How random was it that Dave sat next to me at the meeting? It just proves that I could sit next to anyone I want. Like in assemblies and pep rallies and stuff."
"You don't go to pep rallies," Laila says.
"But I could! That's the point!"
"Those guys aren't smart enough for you," Laila says.
"Love isn't based on intelligence," Maggie huffs. "It can happen with anyone."
"Like who?" Laila demands.
"Hello!" Maggie yells. "Like Dave!"
I go, "Whose turn is it?" Because I don't want to jinx the Dave thing.
"It's yours," Maggie says.
For this one, you have to time your swing so your ball goes in between the windmill slats. If you don't, it's all over. Suddenly it feels really important for me to get this. Like it's a sign. If my ball gets past the windmill, it means that Dave likes me. If it doesn't . . .
I position my golf ball.
I examine the windmill.
I think to the universe, Please make it real. Please make it happen.
I move my golf ball to the right. And I swing.
It's a hole in one.

CHAPTER 2
first days of falling
september 1, 9:14 p.m.
Tomorrow is the first day of the rest of my life.
I finish the first set of curls with my thirty-pound free weights. I examine my biceps for signs of bulk. I decide they're huge. At least, compared to how they used to be. I started lifting on the last day of school in an attempt to improve the situation of my toothpick arms. I need to look good onstage when my band starts playing serious gigs this year. Everyone knows girls want a guy to be cut, with pumped arms and veins popping out, arms that will flex as he lifts himself on top of her. . . .
But I digress.
I do three more sets of fifteen reps and examine my arms again. Definite improvement. I do a hundred sit-ups and fifty pushups and saunter into the bathroom like I'm the biggest stud ever. But this facade shatters when I catch an accidental flash of my reflection in the mirror.
I usually avoid the mirror as much as possible. I somehow developed an insane hope that working out would also improve the condition of my face. I always get zits in the most conspicuous locations, and the fluorescent bulbs in here make me look burnt out like I smoke ten packs a day. Attractive.
Furious, I get into the shower. I should have called her over the summer. Yeah, right.To hear how loudly she would have laughed at the prospect of such a slacker asking her out? No, the way to go with this is to be friends with her first. Be charming and notice details and give her tons of attention. Girls love that.Then she won't be able to resist me when we take it to the next level.
I turn off the water and grab a towel. I'll finally see her tomorrow.

</file>

<file= AmE06_P22>

I woke up wrapped in Ranger's arms, our legs entwined, my face snuggled into his neck. He smelled nice, and he felt even better ...  warm and friendly. I enjoyed it for a moment before reality took hold.

'This is a little déjà vu,' I said to him. 'Didn't you start the night out on the couch?'

'No. I was on the computer when you went to bed. You were already asleep by the time I was done.'

'So you climbed in next to me? I thought when you moved in you'd be sleeping on the couch.'

'You thought wrong.'

'You can't sleep in my bed. It just isn't done. I have a boyfriend. He's a nice guy, but he's not good with sharing.'

'Babe, we're sharing a bed, not a sexual experience. I can control myself if you can.'

'Oh great.'

Ranger's face creased into a smile. 'You can't control yourself?'

I bit into my lower lip.

'Stephanie,' he said. 'You shouldn't tell me things like that. I'll take advantage.'

I blew out a sigh and rolled away from him. 'No you won't. You're Ranger. You're the guy who protects me.'

'Yes, but not from myself!'

I kicked the covers off and slid out of bed. I needed to find Edward Scrog. I needed to find him now! I couldn't manage another morning of waking up next to Ranger.

I took a shower and called Morelli.

'What's going on?' I said.

'I don't know,' Morelli said, sounding half asleep. 'Give me a hint?'

'With Carmen. With Julie Martine. Why hasn't someone found Julie Martine yet? What the heck are you guys doing? I don't understand what's taking so long.'

'What time is it?' Morelli wanted to know. I heard some fumbling and then swearing. 'It's seven-fucking-thirty,' Morelli said. 'It was after two when I got to bed.'

'Did I wake you?'

'Mmm.'

'Sorry. You always get up so early.'

'Not today. Talk to you later.' And he hung up.

I stomped out of the bedroom and into the kitchen where Ranger was making coffee. 'I'm going out,' I said.

'Where are you going?'

'I'm going out for muffins.'

'Give me five minutes to get my shoes on.'

'I don't have five minutes,' I said. 'I have things to do. I've got the panic button. I'll be fine. I'll bring a muffin back for you. What do you want, zucchini, no fat, no sugar, extra bran?'

I turned to go and Ranger scooped me up and carried me into the bedroom and tossed me onto the bed. 'Five minutes,' he said, lacing his shoes.

I lay there spread-eagle, waiting for him. 'Very macho,' I said.

He grabbed my hand and yanked me to my feet. 'Sometimes you try my patience.'

'You don't like it? You can leave.'

He slammed me into the wall and kissed me. 'I didn't say I didn't like it.'

'Okay, good to get that straightened out,' I said. 'Are we going to get muffins, or what?'

He walked to the lot with me, stuffed me into the passenger seat on the Mini and got behind the wheel.

'I thought you were supposed to be secretly following me. I thought I was supposed to be luring Scrog into action.'

'This morning we're both luring him into action. Where do you want to go for muffins?'

'Tasty Pastry. And then Italian Bakery. And then Prizolli's. And then Cluck-in-a-Bucket for a breakfast muffin. And then the convenience store on Hamilton for a paper.'

'Trying to get yourself kidnapped?'

'Do you have a better idea?'

Ranger drove out of the lot and headed for Hamilton. 'Nice to know you're going proactive.'

By the time we got to the convenience store we had the Mini filled with muffin bags. 'Get coffee and a couple papers,' Ranger said. 'We'll have a picnic.'

Ten minutes later, we were on a bench in front of a used bookstore on Hamilton, next to the bonds office. The only way we'd have higher visibility would be to stand in the middle of the road.

'Anybody following us?' I asked Ranger.

'Three cars. Tank in the green SUV, a grey Taurus, and a mini-van.'

'Aren't you afraid you'll get arrested?'

'I'm more afraid I'll get shot by some good Samaritan citizen who saw my picture on America's Most Wanted.' He took a coffee and called Tank. 'Do you have a fix on the Taurus and minivan?'

I chose a carrot cake muffin and waited through a couple beats of silence while Ranger took in the information.

'Amateur bounty hunters,' Ranger finally said to me. 'Disable them,' Ranger said to Tank. 'I don't want Stephanie dragging that clutter around with her.' He disconnected, and we sat there for a half hour eating our muffins, drinking our coffee and reading the paper. We were ready to leave for greener pastures when Morelli drove by, came to a screeching halt, and pulled to the curb. He got out of his SUV and walked over to us.

'You want to explain this to me?'

I told him about Edward Scrog and the scrapbook and the computer blogs.

'So you're sitting here trying to provoke him into making a move?'

'Yep.'

'This is a dangerous stupid idea. He shot his wife and there's no reason to think he won't shoot you.'

'Yeah,' I said. 'But I don't think he'll shoot me right away.'

'That makes me feel a lot better,' Morelli said. 'I'll tell that to my acid reflux.'

'I'll be fine. I swear!' I told him.

Morelli made a disgusted hand gesture. 'I didn't see this,' Morelli said. 'But I want to be kept appraised of the evidence you gather. And if you overstep boundaries with Stephanie and move in on me,' he said, turning to Ranger, 'I'll find you, and it won't be good.'

Morelli took a blueberry muffin out of a bag, jogged back to his car, and took off.

Ranger smiled at me. 'Just so you know, that's not going to stop me from trying to move in on him.'

'You and Morelli have an entirely different agenda. Morelli wants to marry me, and you want to ... '

I stopped because I wasn't sure what word I wanted to insert. Not that any word was necessary. We both knew what Ranger wanted.

'Babe,' Ranger said. 'What I want to do to you is no secret. And I want to do it bad. But I can think with two body parts simultaneously, and I'm not going to do anything stupid.'

'That includes marriage?'

'Marriage, pregnancy, and anything nonconsensual.' He ran a finger under the strap on my tank top. 'I will make a move with partial consent.'

Ranger collected the bags and empty coffee cups and newspapers. He let himself into the bonds office, shut down the alarm, and dumped the trash into Connie's wastebasket. He reset the alarm, exited the office, and locked the door.

'I need to go back to your apartment,' he said. 'I have work to do this morning. Tank will stay with you, and I'll join him later in the day in a separate car. Try to move around and be visible. Remember to always wear your panic button.'

Ranger pulled me to him and kissed me before we got into the Mini.

'Just in case Scrog is watching I don't want to miss an opportunity to piss him off,' Ranger said.
Connie, Lula, and Melvin Pickle were in the office when I returned.

'Meri Maisonet is scheduled to start this morning,' Connie said. 'I'm going to have her run some of the simple search programs. If you have phone work or background checks, just put your file in the queue.'

I dropped Charles Chin, Lonnie Johnson, and Dooby Biagi onto the Maisonet 'to-do' stack, writing a brief note for each. For Chin and Biagi I asked for work and residence histories, followed by phone verification of the most current. For Johnson, I simply said 'Find him.' Johnson's file was already thick with information. I didn't expect Maisonet to find him, but sometimes a new set of eyes saw things previously missed.

I paged through the remaining files and looked for jobs that didn't require the help of a partner. Edward Scrog would be more likely to approach me if I was alone.

I put Bernard Brown at the top of the list. He was low bond and low risk. His danger quotient was close to zero. Bernard had gotten drunk off his ass at Marilyn Gorley's wedding and in a display of ill-timed homage had set fire to a floor-to-ceiling drapery while holding his lighter aloft during a John Lennon song. The result was approximately $80,000 in damages to the banquet room of Littuchy's Restaurante. Probably no criminal charges would have been pressed but Bernard had panicked and punched out the maitre d' when the man had attempted to extinguish Bernard's flaming hair with a bottle of beer.

Bernard was a self-employed accountant working out of his house. Should be an easy catch.

'I'm going to help Bernard Brown get reregistered for court,' I said to Lula. 'It's not a two-man job. Maybe you want to stay here and help Meri get started. Tell her about being a BEA.'

'Sure, I could do that. I got a lot of things I could tell her.'

I avoided looking at Connie and whisked myself out of the office before I got stuck with Lula. I was on the sidewalk when I got a call from Morelli.

'I thought you should know we just towed an abandoned rental. It was rented at Newark Airport on Thursday around eight p.m. The name on the rental agreement was Carmen Manoso. That's why it bounced back to me. Not sure how it slipped through the FBI search. Maybe no one thought to look for something registered to Carmen. Anyway, I've got the car impounded and we're going through it. It looks like blood on the back seat. No way of knowing whose blood it is right now.'

'Is it a lot of blood?'

'Doesn't look like someone died there if that's what you're asking. The bad news is there was also a scrunchie on the floor of the back seat. You know, one of those things the kids use to tie up a ponytail. We photographed it and emailed it to Rachel Martine, and it's tentatively been identified as belonging to Julie Martine.'

'Where did you find the car?'

'It was by the train station.'

I called Ranger and gave him the news. Then I got into the Mini and drove to Hamilton. I was following Ranger's advice. Keep moving forward. Try not to think about the blood in the car.

Bernard Brown lived in a neighborhood that was adjacent to the Burg, just past St Francis Hospital. I drove down his street, checking off house numbers, parking when I reached his duplex.

Brown was forty-three years old and divorced. His house was neat but showing wear. A small sign next to Bernards front door read BERNARD BROWN, CPA.

I rang his bell and waited, resisting the urge to burst into tears or frantically look around for stalkers.

Bernard answered the door in his pajamas and a knit cap. 'Yes?'

I gave him my card and introduced myself.

'I'll be a laughingstock if I go into court,' he said. 'I know people. I do taxes for half the cops. I'll have to take my hat off, and I'll never live it down.'

My eyes went to the knit cap. Eighty degrees out, and he was wearing a knit cap. I looked at the mug shot on his bond agreement. Yow. Torched hair.

'Anything go up in flames besides your hair?' I asked him.

The entire north side of the banquet room. Luckily no one was hurt. Except for the maitre d'. I broke his nose when he threw beer on me. That was before I knew my hair was on fire.'

</file>

<file= AmE06_P23>

He turned around. His face was bleak as an Adirondack winter. "You."
Cass frowned. Leaned forward a little. "Excuse - What? Me?"
"I...have...loved you since the first day I saw you. I've wanted you, I've obsessed about you, I've fantasized about
you. You...you are my Miracle. I let him go...because I wanted you."
His words went into her ears, but her brain couldn't process them.
She shook her head. "No, that's not right. You didn't like me."
"I liked you too much."
"You stayed away."
"I had no choice."
"You... No, you - "
"I haven't been with a woman for six years, Cassandra. Because all I saw was you."
She rose from the floor. And then thought that sitting on the sofa was a good idea.
"You didn't know me."
"I didn't have to. When I saw the sea, I knew it was where I wanted to be. It was the same with you. One look in your eyes and I was lost. I'm like that. I know what I want and where I want to be."
Cass released her breath. "But when we were together. You stopped. And then you said only once. You - "
"I killed your husband. How could I take your body when you didn't know that?" He dragged a hand through his hair. "Except... Oh, God, I did make love to you. And not just once but again and again. I'm sorry. Not that I was with you, but because I wasn't honest with you."
She stared into space, jumbled pictures filtering through her mind.
"Just so we're clear," she said, "I don't believe you killed him. I think that's what you fear happened. But I'm willing to bet anything that you held on for dear life and his hand slipped out of yours.""Cassandra - "
"What was the first thing you did after you felt yourself lose him?"
"I...I went for the flashlight."
"And what did you do with it?"
"I looked for him." Alex's eyes darkened to black. "I searched the waves...for a man in the water. I searched and called out his name and..."
"And what would you have done if you'd seen him? You would have gone after him, right? That's why you were looking for him. Because you wanted to save him." She shook her head. "Those don't sound like the actions of a killer to me"
Alex opened his mouth. When no words came out, he just nodded. A little.
"So you didn't kill him," Cass said strongly. "No matter what you think you feel for me - "
"I know what I feel for you. I love you."
His face was grim, and his voice reverberated with conviction.
He honestly did love her.
Staring up at him, Cass was too stunned to speak. All she could do was look at him.
Say something, you idiot. The man you love loves you back. Say something.
Silence stretched out until the air grew tight between them. God, she was just stuck. Caught in a morass of disbe­lief and hesitant, unexpected happiness.
Alex cleared his throat and started to back up toward the doorway.
"I'm sorry to dump all this on you," he said as he headed
out. "I just...wanted you to know. I don't expect you to un­derstand. But I never want to - "
Say something.
"I'm pregnant," she blurted out.
Well, at least that got him to stop.
But let's just make sure he doesn't go anywhere, she thought.
Cass burst up off the couch, pounded across the room and threw her whole body around him.
Alex seemed utterly flabbergasted, but then his arms gripped her. When he would have separated them, she hung on so hard, she heard his neck crack.
"I love you, Alex. I love you, I love you, I love you... And you're going to be a daddy."
Chapter Twenty-One
Sean O'Banyon told his driver to pull over in the seven­ties on Park Avenue. "I'll be right back, Joey. Just going up to check on Mrs. Cutler."
"Yeah, sure, boss."
Sean opened the car door and waited for a hole between taxis that was big enough for him to shoot through. Cass was back in town, evidently. But the only reason he knew it was because he'd called Gray's after having gotten voice mail for three days straight.
Something was up and he was damn well going to find out what it was.
Pulling his dress coat around him, he jogged halfway across Park and paused at the median. That was when he saw the maroon Honda parked in front of Cass's apartment building with that spiky-haired guy in the driver's seat.
Sean hustled across the street, dodging a delivery truck and a bike messenger. When he hit the sidewalk, he went over to the car and peered inside.
Spike had put the seat back and was apparently snoozing, even though it must have been cold as a meat locker in there. Sean rapped on the window with his knuckle.
The man's eyes lifted slowly, the yellow gaze amused. As if he'd known who was looking into the car.
Sean opened his mouth but was cut off.
"Zoo animals have a weird life," the guy said, his voice muffled through the glass.
"Excuse me?"
"You know, getting stared at while they're in a cage. Freaky. I wonder if they think it's weird, too"
Okay, the man probably had a point. But Sean wasn't interested in a philosophical discussion right now.
"Listen, is Moorehouse up with Cass?" he said loudly so he was sure the words carried.
Spike put the window down. "Yeah. And don't think about getting in the way. He's got things he needs to say." Sean frowned. "Are you threatening me?"
"Pretty much. Except I'll follow through on it. So I guess it's more like a promise, huh?"
Sean laughed. "I like a man's who's up-front."
"So you and I have something in common. Now, how about you return the favor. You going to be trouble?"
"If he hurts her, I'll put his head on a plate. If he's here to make nice, I'll be the first to shake his hand."
Spike nodded his head. "Good deal."
"How long you been here?"
"'Bout an hour."
Frankly, it was a surprise the guy wasn't a Popsicle. Thecold snap that had hit earlier in the week had stuck around, driving the temperatures into the teens.
Sean glanced over at his limo. "You think you're going to be here long?"
"Hope so."
"You got a cell he can reach you on?"
"Yeah."
"You want to get out of the cold? Have a drink or some­thing? My place is about two blocks that way."
While he pointed to the right, he thought it might be fun to get to know this hard-ass guy. Sure as hell there was a story to him, and like the staunch Irishman he was, Sean loved a good story.
Spike put the window up and got out.
Damn, he was tall, Sean thought. There weren't a lot of men who could meet him square in the eye, but Spike sure could.
"Yo, Ricky?" the guy called out.
Richard, the doorman, poked his head out of the lobby. "Yeah?"
"I'm leaving her here, okay? Might be a while." "Sure thing, Spike."
As they crossed Park Avenue, Sean said, "How do you know Richard?"
"Met him an hour ago."
"You got a way with people."
Spike smiled, a dark, mysterious grin. "Some of them."
Chapter Twenty-Two
Alex stirred and nestled in close to the warm woman lying next to him. His hand found her stomach and rubbed it in slow circles. He'd done that a lot while she'd slept, trying to come to terms with a kind of joy he hadn't known existed in the world.
Cassandra was carrying his child. And she loved him back. And they were going to get married.
From out of the bottomless bliss, he saw his father's face, and a memory came back, rising to the surface of Alex's mind. The two of them had been standing on the dock the night before Alex was due to leave for another one of his races.
He'd had no idea that he wasn't coming back anytime soon. He'd figured it was going to be the same as all the other departures. Four weeks gone, maybe six. He cer­tainly hadn't planned on it being a final cut of sorts, the break that took him away from his family.
But his father had known. Somehow his father had known.
Alex heard his father's voice. "You know, son, life takes you a lot of places. Some good, some bad. I've always found that having a home somewhere makes the good better and the bad bearable. I hope you'll remember you can always come back here. No matter how far away you go, we'll always be here."
Alex had shrugged off the words with all the arrogance and self-possession of youth.
It was the last time he'd seen his father alive. Four years later the man had been dead. Alex's mother, too. Both at the hands of the water.
Alex thought of the horrible night on the sea with Reese. Reese was gone, as well.
As he stroked Cassandra's belly, he felt a titanic shift in himself.
His woman stirred and lifted her head. "Good morn­ing -  Alex, what's the matter?"
"I'm not going out again," he said. "I'm not going back
out there. I'm staying with you and the baby." "What...the sailing? You're giving up the sailing?" "Yeah. I am."
A pained relief hit her face, but then she shook her head. "No, Alex, you love the - "
"I love you," he said, kissing her. "The winning is cold and irrelevant compared to ihat. And nothing is worth the time away from you. Nothing."
There was no way his wife and his child were going to have to fend for themselves and worry about whether he
was coming home. And he didn't want his sisters doing that anymore, either.
He was owning his own life from now on, not let­ting the need to compete drive him toward an ever-unreachable sunset.
Alex shifted his body to get even closer to Cassandra, feeling her soft skin brush up against his hard places. One hard place in particular.
As her lids dropped and she started to smile, he laughed deep in his throat. The very male core of him was hungry for her again, in spite of the many times they'd reached for each other in the night.
But before his lips took hers, he pulled back. "Oh, no..." "What?"
"Oh...hell. I left Spike down on the street." Cassandra sat up. "We better - "
Alex's cell phone rang. Because Cassandra was closer to where his pants had landed, she leaned over and answered it. When she hung up, she was laughing.
"Spike doesn't want to talk to you, but not because he's mad. He doesn't want to disturb us. He's over at Sean's and perfectly well. The two of them had a grand time last night, and they want to meet us for lunch. And Sean is thrilled, as he put it, that we came to our senses. He wants to know when the wedding is and where."
Alex grinned. "You know, I might just warm up to that guy. And lunch sounds good"
Because he was going to need some help. He had an engagement ring to buy. Between Spike and Sean, he figured the three of them could take on the diamond district.
"Oh, and there's one other thing," Cass said as Alex pulled her back against his body, spooning himself around her.
He reached for her breast and nibbled on her shoulder. As she shivered and warmed under his hand, he murmured, "One more thing?"
"Spike said that Sean's more of a gentleman than you are."
"Oh, yeah?"
"Um, I guess Sean didn't make fun of his Wookie?" Alex laughed and swept his palm down her body. "I'll explain later. Right now, Miracle, it's all about you."

</file>

<file= AmE06_P24>

One
LONDON MARCH 1819
The Marquis of Middleton, who was the sole heir to the powerful Redford duchy, had an
air about him,
a palpable energy that exuded power and wealth. There was also the potent sexuality of a
very masculine man that was felt by most women  - and perhaps a few men. It was indeed
a potent sexuality.
The marquis, Jared Broderick, said or did nothing to provoke such feelings in others, for
in all honesty,
he was quite unaware of his remarkable power. Had someone suggested that he caused
women to feel weak at the knees with just a look, he might have laughed and
unabashedly confessed to adoring all
women, for he did. Poor women, rich women, daughters of Qual ity or commoners, he
cared not - just as long as they were completely and unapologetically female. That meant
they must have a scent of sweet
waters about them, be soft, occasionally silly, vexing, enticing, and inspiring  - both in the
boudoir and beyond.
With his darkly golden brown hair, square jaw, broad shoulders, and hazel eyes flecked
with gold, he
was considered dangerously handsome among the haute ton, the elite society of London.
He was tall and broad and lean, possessed of an athletic build. His raki sh habits had a
slightly sinister side, too, for a man who enjoyed both gaming and women was bound to
run into a spot of trouble from time to time.
Whispered rumors of a duel persisted, a duel in which he had purportedly proceeded
fearlessly and had emerged victorious.
The most recent tale of his recklessness had to do with his performance during the course
of a stag hunt
last autumn. The stag had sensed the hunters and had broken through the forest to escape.
It was said that Middleton risked his neck and that of his big bay horse to catch the stag,
leaping over rock walls,
storming through dangerous gullies and thickets, racing far ahead of the other riders. But
when Middleton had cornered the stag, he reined up, turned his mount around, and
returned to the estate. They said it
seemed as if it wasn't the hunt that mattered but the ride.
In the posh interiors of London's gentlemen's clubs, more than one man remarked that
the marquis rode
so hard that day not because he was in pursuit of a prize stag, but b ecause his own
demons were in pursuit of him.
Whatever his habits, they were routinely reported, thinly disguised, in the London
morning newspapers,
and surely none endured around the elite Mayfair district of London as well as the tales of
his exploits in
the beds of some of the most important women in town. What made these rakish tales
even more scintillating was that he was heir to one of the most powerful duchies in
England and Wales, and the thought of him siring bastards about town was cause for
great distress to his father, the current Duke of Redford.
It was well known that many lords desired that their daughters be groomed for a match
with Redford's son, and the odds -on favorite was thought to be Lady Elizabeth
Robertson. Lady Elizabeth's father w as
a dear boyhood friend of the duke's, and it was agreed by all wagging tongues that her
pedigree for becoming a duchess was unparalleled.
What the gossips didn't know, however, was that the marquis and the duke had engaged
in many loud arguments about L ady Elizabeth in which the marquis had steadfastly
refused to entertain the idea of a match with her and the duke insisted he would approve
of no other match.
It was, in fact, another on dit in this morning's newspaper that had prompted the duke to
summon the marquis like a servant once again.
Jared came, but he sat carelessly as his father paced. The duke was gripping the latest
edition of the
Times in his hand, too angry to speak for several moments. " 'A certain widow,' " he
read, and threw the paper down as he pinned Jared with a cold glare. "I know very well to
whom they allude - everyone in
town knows of your affair with Lady Waterstone."
Jared shrugged. So he'd been visiting the widow's bed  - he was a man, and he'd
developed a certain corporeal fondness for Miranda, Lady Waterstone.
"Have you no care for your reputation? What if Lady Elizabeth should read this?" the
duke asked him through gritted teeth.
"What if she should?" Jared responded irreverently. He owed no measure to Lady
Elizabeth that he
could see, and frankly, if his father was so keen to see the woman married, Jared thought,
perhaps he, a widower for many years, should do the marrying. Jared was completely
unrepentant about his refusal  - 
he thought nothing of living every day as if it were his last, and no fatherly desire to see
him wed a woman with the face of a horse would keep him from it.
But as Jared's refusal became more entrenched, the greater umbrage his father took with
him, today notwithstanding. "I have suffered the indignity of hearing of your association
with this woman at my club
 - and now I must read it as well?"
"I am not responsible for what is printed," Jared said.
The duke's face turned dark. "Yet you are responsible for the contemptible behavior that
ignites such rubbish to be printed, are you not? I demand that you not debase our name
and title with the likes of that woman, do you quite understand me? You w ill not lie with
a harlot who married above herself," he
snapped. "Now that she is widowed, she would sink her talons in the heir to the Redford
title, and I will
not have it! Lady Elizabeth is perfectly suited to carry a legitimate heir, and as soon as is
possible within
the bounds of propriety!"
Jared bristled with indignation. "Is that all that I am, your grace? Breeding stock for your
vast realm of influence?"
His father's dark brown eyes narrowed. "You are vile."
"Very well," Jared said, quietly seething, "if the price for having been born to your
exalted house is to produce a bloody heir, I shall do so. But I shall do so at my leisure and
with whom I please."
"You will not produce an heir with whomever you please !" his father thundered. "There
is much more at stake here than your lustful cravings! I should think you would have
learned as much from the ugly consequences of your previous libertine habits!" he said,
piercing old wounds. "I warn you, Lord Middleton, i f you think to dishonor me further, I
will see you disinherited by order of the king!"
Jared threw his arms wide with a shout of incredulous laughter. "By all means, my lord! I
will not stop you - I would welcome it, for at least I'd be free of the yoke you have put
on me!" He meant that
sincerely. Granted, he'd made his fair share of mistakes  - but so had the duke. Let him
disinherit - Jared was a marquis in his own right; he had no need of the title of duke and
frankly, he did not want it.
But his father suddenly sank into his ornate mahogany chair behind an even grander desk
and covered his face with his thin hands for a moment. "For the love of Christ, Jared," he
said, his voice hoarse. "For the love of Christ, please do as I ask." He lifted his head from
his hands and looked at his son. "You cannot forget that our family was once steeped in
debauchery and made bed with whores and bastards. It took years for our name to be
recognized by the monarchy. For you to debase that good name now with your
slut is unconscionable. Marry a woman of proper standing and put a son in her, then
whore with whomever you please!"
"Just as you did?" Jared asked evenly.
The duke paled. He leaned back in his chair, gripped the edge of his desk, every muscle
in his body quivering with rage. "Get out of my sight," he said quietly.
Jared gained his feet. "Your grace," he said with a nod, and strode out of the massive
town house on
Park Lane bound for White's, desperately angry with his father, and even angrier with the
two footmen who had been ordered to follow him.
All his life, he had chafed under the absurdity of his supposed responsibility. His was a
dishearteningly simple and primal function  - he was breeding stock to the ducal
Redfords, valued for nothing more than
his ability to procreate. Honestly, he really remembered little else from his childhood,
particularly after his mother had died in his fourteenth year. His memory of her was
fading, and he could scarcely recall her softness, or the warmth of her breath, or the smell
of lilacs on her skin. He remembered that she would
laugh when she was with him, but in truth, he saw her only occasionally. His parents
resided in London or
the country, wherever his father's mistress resided.
Jared, on the other hand, resided elsewhere , with the nursemaids and governesses and
tutors who would sculpt him to be a duke one day.
Even when he'd gone off to school, his acquaintances were closely watched, his
schooling carefully monitored. He never felt close to anyone, really, save his two g ood
friends, Lords Stanhope and Harrison, who had been schooled alongside him.
The talk of producing an heir began the moment he'd come of age, the demands growing
louder each passing year. Now, on the eve of his thirtieth birthday, the demands were
deafening.
More than once Jared had wished he'd been born the son of a crofter, a merchant, a
banker - any occupation his father might have esteemed above his cock. But he'd been
born the son of a duke, and from the time he could remember, his father had sought to
control his destiny, whom he befriended,
whom he loved.
As a result, Jared loved no one.
He made his way to White's, the gentlemen's club to which he belonged, and moped
about, refusing to even hold a hand in a game of whist when his friends pressed him.
When the game ended, his oldest
friend, Geoffrey Godwin, Viscount Harrison, insisted he accompany him to the Fontaine
ball. "I can't let you drink alone," he'd said, clapping Jared on the back. "You may very
well harm someone."
"I don't want to go to any blo ody ball," Jared muttered. "I despise the vapidity of the
social season. It's scarcely begun and already there is a parade of debutantes and their
mothers before me, all hungry for a spectacular match and unparalleled fortune."
"Oh now, don't be so harsh on the poor birds and their mothers," Harrison said, touching
Jared's glass with his before swallowing the last of his whiskey. "Don't let the fathers off
so easily - there is nothing
more bloody stilted than the conversation of a man with an unmarried daugh ter."
"Ach," William Danvers, Lord Stanhope scoffed, waving a hand at them. "Walk in my
shoes, will you?
Have your fortune entailed for generations to come so that you must be the one to hope
for a spectacular match with a woman of unparalleled fortune."
"Impossible," Jared snorted. "Women don't have fortunes  - men do."
"That, sir, is precisely my problem," Stanhope said, and with a sound of disgust, pushed a
hand through
his blond hair.
"Come on, then," Harrison said. "Stanhope is headed for the gami ng hells to increase his
paltry fortune. But I have it on good authority that there will be a high -stakes table at the
Fontaine ball for the wealthy gentlemen who do not enjoy dancing."
Jared glanced at Harrison. "High -stakes?"
"Very high-stakes," Harrison confirmed with a smile.
Jared shrugged. "I would prefer the warmth of Miranda's body to a damn card game."
"But Miranda is not about, she is in the country.

</file>

<file= AmE06_P25>

He licked his lips, tried again. "I prefer to feel like I'm pulling my weight. Doing my share."
"Good. I'll let you wait on me later."
"Couldn't we both just sort of - wait on ourselves?"
She blinked and tilted her head to one side, almost as if his words didn't compute. Then she shrugged. "I
was going to offer to shave you. Always wanted to try that. But um...you go ahead. Wait on yourself. Be
quick, though. I'll have breakfast on the table in five minutes."
"Okay." So much for not waiting on him. Hell. He wondered why it bothered him so much and decided it
probably was a clue to his personality. He must be an independent prick. Who else would be ungrateful
for this kind of attention from a woman who looked like this one?
He made quick work of washing up, ran the razor over his face, and brushed his teeth. Then he toweled
down, dressed and joined her in the kitchen, where she'd filled his plate and poured his coffee.
"Taste," she said, nodding at the cup.
He tasted, grimaced. "Needs cream."
Smiling, she leaned over him, breast brushing his shoulder, and poured creamer into his mug.
"Gas-powered fridge. Everything was just stocked last week, Tessa said, so - there, try it now."
He sipped again, nodded. "Good. Perfect." She was acting like a wife. A newly minted,
fresh-from-the-altar bride. And it was chafing him under the collar like an overly starched shirt.
His plate had three strips of bacon, two eggs over easy, some golden-brown buttered toast. He reached
for the salt shaker, and she beat him to it, grabbing it first and handing it to him.
Instead of taking it, he stared up at her. "Selene?"
"Yeah?"
"Sit down and eat your breakfast."
She blinked, then averted her eyes and looked a little sheepish. "Sorry," she said, sinking into her own
chair. "I'm the youngest in my family. Everyone tends to try to take care of me, you know? I guess the
opportunity to take care of someone else for a change is a little too much fun."
He thought there was more to it than that, but he didn't say so. "It's not that I don't appreciate it."
"No, I know that. You just need more time to get used to it."
The comment took him aback, but he chose to ignore it, and instead dug into the meal.
"Good?" she asked when his plate was half empty.
"Great. The bacon's a little...different."
"That's because it's not bacon. It's Fakin' Bacon. One hundred percent meat-free. Hard to tell the
difference, huh?"
He frowned at her, and took another bite of the food in question, chewed and swallowed. "That's not
meat?"
"Nope. Good isn't it? Tessa's a vegan. I figured there had to be a few vegan-friendly foods here."
"Does that mean she has pointy ears and no emotions?"
"No. It means she's a vegetarian like me, but one who not only doesn't eat meat, but any other animal
products. Like dairy and eggs and honey."
"Wow, that's extreme." He took another bite of the phony bacon. "It's pretty damn good. Better than I
would have expected."
"Even better when you consider that no animals had to die to provide us with it, and that it's only got a
tenth of the fat and calories, and no cholesterol at all."
"Healthy as hell, huh? So how come you're not eating any?"
"Because I prefer oatmeal." She nodded at own plate and bowl. The bowl held oatmeal, and the plate,
half a slice of toast. She was eating the other half, with jelly on it.
"So do you have a plan for the day?" he asked her.
"After breakfast, I need to drive to the nearest pay phone. The cell's got basically no signal. I have to let
my mother know where I am, or she'll worry herself sick."
"I'll go with you, if that's okay with you."
She glanced at him. "Of course it is." Then she studied him a moment, and tipped her head to one side.
"You don't trust me, even now, do you?"
"Who said I didn't trust you?"
"You did. Just now. Do you think I'm going to sneak off to meet with whoever's trying to kill you, or that
I'm going to call him and tell him where to find you?"
He licked his lips. "It crossed my mind." Though he realized he was more and more convinced she was
as innocent as she claimed to be. Still, telling her that would be a mistake. At least it gave him a viable
reason to keep her at arm's length.
"Damn. You're a tough nut to crack, aren't you? I wonder if you were always this cynical or if it's just a
side effect of the amnesia."
"Wish I knew."
She shrugged. "Guess time will tell, huh?"
He didn't want to say that he doubted there would be time. Not with her, at least. If he ever remembered
his past, his life, he was pretty sure he would want to get back to it. And she'd pretty much convinced
him that his former life wasn't here in Big Falls, Oklahoma.
He finished his breakfast, and tried not to watch her as she finished hers. But he couldn't help but watch
her. Every time those white teeth closed on a bit of the toast, every time that pink little tongue darted out
to lick the crumbs from her luscious lips, every time her throat moved when she swallowed, his attention
was riveted.
He wondered just how long he'd been without sex, and thought it must be a very long time, if watching a
woman eat toast could get him this hot.
Finally, she leaned back in her chair to sip her coffee. He took the opportunity to jump up and clear the
table. She started to get up, too, and he met her eyes, shook his head sternly. "No way. You sit there. It'
s my turn."
She sank back, smiling softly and watching him as he washed the dishes.
Cory could feel her eyes on him, watching his every move. He hated that he was starting to trust her.
Even to like her. Damn, if he couldn't keep some distance and perspective, he was liable to dig himself
into a hole too deep to get out again. And keeping his distance was going to be damn tough when he fully
intended to have intense, incredible, blood-boiling sex with her. Repeatedly.
Chapter 7
S elene got into the passenger side of her sister's new station wagon, just to see what Cory's reaction
would be. He glanced at her through the window, shrugged his incredible shoulders - Goddess, why
couldn't she stop noticing his body? - and got behind the wheel. Selene had the keys in the switch and
the engine running before he'd even closed his door. She didn't want him taking time to think about it.
And he didn't. He backed the wagon up, shifted into Drive, and eased the car onto the dirt track that
passed for a road, heading back the way they'd come. "You didn't feel like driving?"
She didn't answer right away, just watched him maneuver the car around a smattering of potholes, and
take a hairpin curve with long-practiced ease. "I just wanted to see if you had a license back in your old
life."
As soon as the words were out, he jerked the wheel and the car swerved.
"Knock it off," she said. "You know how to drive. You handle the car like a pro."
He glanced at her, got the vehicle under control with little more than that slight veering off course. "For a
second it hit me that I might not. That was kind of risky, wasn't it? What if I didn't know how to drive? I
could have put us into a ditch."
"If you didn't know how to drive, you would have got behind the wheel and felt awkward and confused.
You wouldn't have just started driving as if it were second nature."
"You sure about that?"
"No. But it seems logical. Besides, I cast a protective ball of energy around the car to keep us safe, just
in case."
He reacted to that remark with a slight raising of his eyebrows, and nothing more. "You're a little bit
impulsive, aren't you?"
She smiled in his direction. Did she dare take that question as a sign he was interested in getting to know
her? "You're just noticing that, huh?"
"It seems to be one of the patterns I see emerging."
"Yeah? You notice any other patterns?"
He nodded. "You're enthusiastic. You're optimistic. And friendly."
"Not bad for a one-night acquaintance."
"I wish I knew as much about me." He reached the bottom of the dirt track, where it spilled onto a
paved road. "Which way?"
"Left. Down to the main road, then right. There's a convenience store with a pay phone about three miles
down."
He took the turn, and drove a bit faster.
"And I think I do know as much about you, you know."
"Yeah? Hell, you've been batting a thousand so far. Go for it."
"Well, I guess I think you're a bit of a...a player."
"A player?" He sounded offended.
"I don't mean that in a bad way."
"I didn't know there was a good way."
She shook her head hard and started over. "Okay, maybe that's the wrong word. What I mean is, you
seem really interested in sex. But completely uninterested in...romance."
"If by romance you mean commitment, I think you might be right."
"I guess that's what I mean. I wonder if you've always been that way."
"I have no idea. But it seems to come pretty naturally."
"You'll get over it, though."
He lifted his brows and stared at her. "I will?"
"Sure. When a person meets his soul mate, all that resistance and fear just melts away."
"It does?"
"Sure it does. You'll see."
He frowned at her, taking his attention off the road.
"There's the store, right there. See the pay phone out front?"
He jerked his attention back to the task at hand and pulled into the store's parking lot, swerving close to
the phone booth. He put the car into Park and shut off the engine, but didn't open the door right away.
Instead he sat there for a minute, staring at his hands on the wheel.
"Something wrong, Cory?"
Lifting his head, he met her eyes, and his were narrow and probing. "Yeah. I just uh, was wondering - 
you seem to be implying that...um...I've met my soul mate. I mean, is that what you meant?"
"Yeah. That's what I meant." She couldn't help but smile, and damn, she knew she was probably scaring
the hell out of him, but she honestly didn't believe in beating around the bush. He might as well know the
truth. She'd grown so frustrated in trying to guess his feelings - if he even had any feelings - for her, that
she was no longer capable of keeping quiet about her own.
"So you think that you...and I..."
"We're destined for each other, Cory. It's as simple as that."
He puckered his lips and blew a sigh, and his eyes looked worried.
"Oh, come on, think about it," she said. "Do you know how big those woods around the falls are? It's a
thirty-thousand-acre forest, Cory. What are the odds you would find your way straight to me when you
could have gone a hundred other directions? What are the odds on that knife wound leaving you with just
enough strength to make it to my side before you collapsed? What are the odds against all of that
happening on the one night in the month when I was even out there?"
He gnawed his lip. "I take it you don't believe in coincidence?"
"Synchronicity. Not coincidence. I was asking the universe to be sure and send me a sign to tell me when
the man I was meant to love forever came into my life.

</file>

<file= AmE06_P26>

One of the men Meredith hit was also dead, but the second cupped an injured arm while he howled like a baby.

Devlin and the other man were unharmed, scowling up at Meredith and Emily. Devlin's eyes darted to Tristan. "You bastard."

"Me, the bastard?" Tristan smiled as he thought of the fate that awaited Devlin. "I don't think so. You're the one committing treason. You're the one responsible for my brother's death."

The other man's eyes went wide with surprise.

"That's right, Devlin. I climbed my way into your organization, made you believe I was on your side, and all along I was against you." His smile grew. "Remember when your arms shipment sank? I was the one who anonymously passed the information of its location to the right people. Or when the courier with that large payment went missing?"

"You!" Devlin burst out, struggling as if about to get to his feet. When Meredith's gun moved level with his face, he returned to his seated position against the stacked boxes.

"And now you'll pay for all your crimes," Meredith added. "Ana, go send for Charlie. I'm sure he'll want to take these men to Newgate where they belong."

"With pleasure," Ana said, hurrying down the dock.

Devlin's focus moved from Tristan to Meredith. His eyes narrowed, and Tristan could have killed him for the violent malice in his stare.

"Who are you?" he asked, low and dangerous.

"You're not the only one with secrets," Meredith replied with a little smile. "I'm the woman who is placing you under arrest. For crimes against King and Country. For treason. Emily, bind his hands."

"With pleasure," Emily said as she finished with Devlin's partner, then stooped to deal with Devlin.

It only took a moment, just a flash, for everything to change. As Emily bent, Devlin abruptly rose up. His forehead hit her chin with a jolting blow, powerful enough that she staggered forward. Devlin caught her with one arm, her gun with the other, and got to his feet before Tristan or Meredith could take a step forward.

 

Meredith bit back a scream of horror as Devlin carefully maneuvered away from them. Emily was limp in his arms, unable to fight or run. Meredith couldn't tell how badly she'd been injured.

"Let her go, Devlin," Tristan cried.

"Release her or I swear I will blow a hole in you," Meredith ordered. Her gun remained steady, but her voice trembled.

"And risk my shooting her first, or my using her as a shield?" Devlin's old smirk returned. "I think not."

Tristan and Meredith exchanged a glance, and she saw the empathy in the eyes of the man she loved. Devlin was right, of course. Even though both of them had their pistols raised, they couldn't risk the danger to Emily, who couldn't protect herself in her unconscious state.

Devlin dragged her back along the dock, keeping his gun trained on her head. Meredith moved forward to follow when a clatter echoed behind her. Her fan had fallen from the folds of her skirt where it had been hidden. She saw Tristan's eyes go wide at the sight of the six-inch blade protruding from the base.

She dropped down to scoop the weapon up, hiding the blade in her palm in the hopes Devlin hadn't noticed. He seemed too busy gloating as he made his escape.

"If you take one step closer, I will kill her," he promised.

Meredith raised her hands. "No! I'm putting my weapon down." She sent a look to Tristan and whispered, "Don't let go of yours."

He nodded, lowering his gun to his side as she let hers rest on the dock, leaving the fan as her only weapon.

As she straightened, she watched in helpless horror as Devlin moved even farther away.

"How can we stop him?" she whispered.

Tristan quickly took in the scene, his gaze darting around like that of a highly trained spy.

"Devlin is about to come even with that pillar on the right," he said softly, glancing at her. "When he does, I'll shoot it."

"No," she insisted with a shake of her head. "If you shoot, he might kill Emily! Or the bullet could bounce the wrong way."

He turned to face her while he watched Devlin from the corner of his eye. "If he gets out of our range, do you doubt he will kill Emily the moment he makes an escape?"

She hesitated, then her eyes dropped. "No, he'll kill her the instant she is of no further use to him."

Tristan lifted his weapon. "Once I distract him with my shot, throw your knife. I assume you have good aim with that thing."

She nodded even as she stared at him. Tristan's weapon was leveled on Devlin. Her heart skittered. Would he take this last chance at revenge, even though it could end her best friend's life?

A ragged breath escaped her lips. "I have faith in you."

He glanced her way from the corner of his eye. "I know."

Then he pulled the trigger.
Chapter 24

M eredith released her held breath in relief when the worn wooden pillar beside Devlin's head shattered. He yelped, turning away from the spray of splinters that flew in every direction. She said a short prayer, then threw her knife.

She watched the weapon circle end over end in the air before it hit its mark. Devlin's exposed throat.

The gun clattered from his hand as he let out a sickening gurgle. He dropped to his knees, and Emily's limp body hit the dock with jarring force.

Meredith took off running, with Tristan at her heels. Kicking the weapon far from Devlin's reach, she sank down and gently lifted Emily's head into her lap.

"Wake up," she whispered, frowning at the ugly bruise already forming on Emily's chin and the other that would certainly darken on her cheek. How badly was she hurt? A head injury could kill.

"Please," she murmured, stroking hair away from her friend's face. "Please."

Tristan placed his hands on her shoulders as she stared at her still motionless partner. Tears stung her eyes while she waited, praying for some sign. Then, finally, Emily stirred and her eyes fluttered open.

"Did you stop him?" she whispered, wincing when she tried to sit up.

"Shhh," Meredith soothed her. She glanced at Tristan and caught her breath. He stared at Devlin's body. Could this be enough to fulfill the duty he believed he owed Edmund?

"Meredith?" Emily croaked.

She nodded, bringing her attention back to her friend. "Yes. He's dead."

Emily smiled as she shut her eyes.

Within moments a flurry of activity descended on the dock. Tristan was shoved aside as Ana returned, swiftly followed by Charlie and his men. There were questions to be asked, arguments to have.

Finally, Meredith made her way to Tristan. He stood on the edge of the dock, staring out over the murky water. She hesitated before she touched his arm.

"I'm sorry," she whispered. "I hope you don't feel I stole your revenge."

He turned and his potent green stare held hers. "You were right, Meredith. His blood won't bring Edmund back. My brother rested easy long ago. My quest to kill Devlin was about my peace, not Edmund's."

She bit her lip. "And can you find your peace now?"

His expression softened. "I found you. You are the one who brings me peace."

Her eyes filled with joyful tears. "I love you," she whispered as she curled her fingers into his hair and brought his mouth down on hers. "I love you."

 

Charlie stacked a mound of paperwork on his desk with a nod. His eyes came up, snaring Meredith's first, then Tristan's.

"I believe everything is in order here. Lord Carmichael, it appears your story was correct. And while I don't condone a gentleman involving himself in matters better left to officials, I do appreciate what you did to assist us." He stood and offered a hand. "I hope you'll accept both my thanks and my apologies."

Meredith held her breath as she watched Tristan rise. His face remained stern. "There is still the issue of Philip Barclay to be resolved. Have you removed the charges against him as well?"

Charlie nodded. "Your friend has already been released and escorted to your town home, where he awaits your arrival."

Tristan's face relaxed and he took Charlie's offered hand. "Thank you, Mr. Isley."

Her superior's gaze came to her. Slowly, Meredith got to her feet. It had been over twelve hours since their encounter with Devlin and his men. Emily now rested comfortably, with no worse injury than a blackened eye and a pounding head. This was the final obstacle to overcome.

Charlie scowled. "I want to make it perfectly clear that Lady M and I do not condone what you did. I've had a stern discussion with Emily and Ana as well."

She nodded. "I hope you realize this was all my doing, Charles. If a severe punishment is required, please let it rest solely on my shoulders."

He opened his desk drawer and withdrew a letter. Her heart sank. Surely it was the notice of her dismissal. Then she caught sight of Tristan, watching the scene with silent concern. If she had lost her position, it had been worth it.

Charlie's face softened. "This is from Lady M. It is her thanks for a job well done."

Meredith reached for the letter with trembling hands and clutched it to her chest. "I - I'm not dismissed?" she whispered as tears wet her cheeks.

"No. Your instincts were best, after all. That is why you were chosen as a spy." Charlie touched her hand. She thought she saw moisture brighten his eyes before he cleared his throat and returned to his seat. "You shall be very busy, you and Ana and Emily. The evidence we obtained from Devlin's surviving cohorts, his town home, and the information Lord Carmichael shared with us shall keep you working for months to come. I hope you're ready."

She nodded. "We're always ready, Charlie."

He looked at Tristan again. "Is there anything else we can do for you, my lord?"

Tristan nodded. "Yes, Isley, actually there is."

"Name it."

"Give Meredith and her friends a few weeks holiday before they start disseminating the evidence. Give yourself a little time as well."

Meredith wrinkled her brow, confused. Charlie did the same.

"And why is that, Lord Carmichael?" Charlie asked.

Tristan's gaze moved to her, and the love she saw sparkling in his eyes warmed her to her very toes. "Because we're all going to be very busy planning a wedding. If we start reading the banns this Sunday, we could be married within the month."

Meredith gasped, her hand coming up to her lips. "You - We ... ?"

He smiled as he dropped to one knee and took her hand. "I have never succeeded in asking you this in a romantic setting," he said with a laugh. "But the sentiment is real. I want you to be my wife. And this time, I will brook no refusals."

Joy lifted Meredith until she felt she could fly. Everything she ever desired, yet feared to hope for, was looking at her, embodied in Tristan.

She laughed even though tears streamed down her face. "You will hear no refusals, my lord. Yes, I will marry you, Tristan."

As Tristan's face lit up, she turned to Charlie. "I suppose I must tender my resignation."

Tristan was on his feet in a heartbeat. "What?" He clenched her shoulders and forced her to look at him. "Why?"

"I will be a marchioness," she answered. "No longer a widow. I assumed - "

He cut her off by slipping his arms around her. "I would want no other person protecting my country than my wife. You cannot give up your work, Meredith."

Her heart swelled with joyful emotion. "Only if you fight by my side, Tristan."

He smiled. "I will always be on your side." His mouth came down to hers. "Always."

</file>

<file= AmE06_P27>

His hands encased in leather gloves, the witch-hunter gripped the reins of his mount. Like her master, the spirited ebony mare blended with the darkness. Aristide's shoulder-length hair was as black as the horse's mane and just as wild in the brisk wind blowing leeward. He was likewise garbed all in black from his thick boots to his leather jerkin. His beard-shadowed face cast no pale gleam to alert his enemies, his skin toughened from many days spent in the saddle, weathering the elements. 
Simon had an angular countenance, the set of his mouth hard and uncompromising, rarely softened by a smile. His left eye was as dark as the rest of him, glinting with a piercing intelligence. His ravaged right eye he usually kept concealed beneath a black patch. A heavy scar, the result of a duel, bisected his forehead, disappearing beneath the patch only to emerge in a thin crease that marred his cheek. He was an intimidating figure, tall, with sinewy limbs. Anyone would have to be mad to attack him. 
But Simon had concluded that the creatures stalking him were mad or else imbued with evil and malice to a chilling degree. On a night like this, alone, isolated from any signs of human habitation, he preferred to think his pursuers were merely insane. It was more comforting than the alternative. 
As the shadows deepened around him, Simon resisted the urge to nudge Elle into a gallop. The barest pressure of his knees and they'd both be off like the wind. But it would be far too dangerous, the cliff path narrow and treacherous even in the full light of day. A full-out gallop in the dark would be pure suicide. An easier road beckoned to him through the trees that rimmed the cliffs, but the gnarled trunks, the thicket of shrubs and undergrowth offered far too many places for concealment. 
Simon kept the mare to a sedate walk. He heard nothing beyond the steady clop of Elle's hoofbeats, the wind rustling through the trees, the surf battering the rocks far below, and yet the back of his neck tingled with the awareness that he was not alone out here in the darkness. They were here. At least one of them. Perhaps the one he had sensed dogging him in the last village he had passed through. 
Or perhaps exhaustion and only a few snatched hours of troubled sleep were starting to get the better of him. But he didn't think so. Elle's behavior told him otherwise. The mare had been twitchy the past mile or so, skittering, tossing her head, her ears pricked. 
Simon reached down to pat her neck when the sound carried to his ears. At first he thought he imagined the faint wail of an infant. It could be no more than the wind keening over the rocky headland. Simon's gut knotted with dread all the same. 
Around the next bend, the land leveled off and the cries became louder and more plaintive. Simon drew Elle to a halt, tensely scanning the distance. Barely one hundred yards ahead, moonlight flooded an object abandoned perilously near the edge of the cliff. Anyone else might have mistaken it for a blanket roll left behind by a careless shepherd. But Simon had seen such bundles before, with one difference this time. 
This one was still alive, the infant's cries borne to him clearly on the wind. Simon's heartbeat quickened, his first impulse to charge forward. But he'd narrowly avoided ambush too many times to be that rash. 
He slid from Elle's back and drew the mare into a stand of trees, tethering her to the trunk of a sturdy but pliant beech. Elle's eyes did not roll in terror, but she was blowing and stamping. She shifted her sleek powerful chest and shoulders as though to block him from leaving the grove. 
Simon stroked the horse to soothe her. He lingered in the shadow of the trees, his gaze tracking the path to the jutting of the cliff. The plateau where the child had been abandoned offered no place of concealment, no cover for anyone attempting to hide. It would not offer Simon any, either, if some assassin lurked farther down the path or even in the trees, preparing to lodge an arrow in his back. 
But that was not his enemy's usual mode of attack and the cries of the infant overrode his caution. They were growing weaker by the moment. It was just possible that they had never counted on Simon being here this soon. 
Easing past Elle, Simon drew his sword and started forward. He could barely hear the child now, only one final whimper and then a terrible silence. All stealth and wariness forgotten, he ran, dislodging a hail of pebbles beneath his boots. 
He hurtled toward the small bundle on the edge of the cliff, dropping to his knees beside it. The wind stirred the edge of the coarse blanket, but there was no movement from the tiny figure. Simon set down his sword and stripped off his gloves. He gathered the swathed infant into his arms with a gentleness that was as rare as his prayers. 
Please. Please let me have arrived in time. Just this once. 
He peeled back the flap of the blanket, his breath hitching sharply. The doll's glass button eyes fixed him with an empty stare, the jagged mouth stitched onto the canvas face sneering at him. Tricked. 
He scarcely had time to register that fact before he heard the snap of a twig on his blind side. He jerked toward the sound and realized that there was a hollow in the ground below the place where he knelt. He caught the barest blur before the woman crouching there sprang at him. 
Her teeth bared in a snarl, she launched into him, knocking him onto his back. Moonlight glinted off the weapon in her hand as she thrust at his neck. Simon deflected the blow with the doll and bucked upward, hurling his attacker off of him. She hit the ground with a furious screech. By the time he had regained his feet, she had also scrambled to hers. And she was between him and his sword. With a contemptuous smile, she kicked it farther out of his reach. 
She was clad in baggy breeches and a peasant's tunic, her dark hair unkempt, her eyes manic, her mouth cruel and cunning. Simon kept a knife hidden inside his boot, but he made no move to go for it. 
"Keep back, woman," he said. "I have no desire to harm you. Drop your weapon and I am willing to spare you if you answer my questions." 
The creature threw back her head, emitting an eerie imitation of an infant's mewling cry. "What's your question?" she mocked. "Where's the babe? There is none, witch-hunter. Not this time. And that is the only answer you'll get from me. Aside from this." She brandished her weapon, circling in closer. 
"No desire to harm me. Bah." She spat in Simon's direction, the spittle landing inches from his boot. "I know how you witch-hunters ask your questions. With the rack and the branding iron." 
"That is not my way," he said, "If you attack me again, I will have to kill you." 
"What does that matter? I am not afraid to die. The Silver Rose will resurrect me." 
With a bloodcurdling screech, she leaped and was on him again. Simon caught her wrists to hold her back. No mere woman should have been so strong. Whatever madness or evil surged through her veins, it was all Simon could do to keep her at bay. He felt the heat of her breath, heard the gnash of her teeth as she came within an inch of tearing open his cheek. 
He was more concerned with the strange weapon she clutched in her right hand. She stabbed at him, the tip tearing through his jerkin. Simon twisted her wrist until she cried out and dropped the weapon. She went into a fury, kicking, snapping, and trying to bite. When nothing else availed, she butted the top of her head beneath his chin. Simon reeled, his jaw exploding with pain. He lost his grip on her and staggered back, barely managing to stop himself from plunging over the edge of the cliff. 
His attacker rushed at him in an effort to drive him over. He dodged her charge and it was she who teetered, the ground giving way beneath her. She fell, scrabbling wildly for purchase. Simon flung himself to the ground and caught her arm. She dangled below him, her legs and free arm flailing, her face white with rage. Her weight strained the muscles in his arm until they burned with pain. 
"Who sent you?" he growled. "Who is this Silver Rose that you serve?" 
"Go to hell," she shrieked. 
"Tell me what I want to know or - " Simon gasped as she clawed at his hand, digging her nails in so viciously, his grip slackened. 
He felt her start to slip, made another desperate grab for her arm. But it was too late. She hurtled into the darkness, his last view her face gloating with insane triumph. He heard the thud of her body as it struck the cliff side on the way down and then a splash. The sea was like a dark, hungry beast, frothing at the mouth as it devoured the witch's broken body and all the answers he so desperately sought along with her. 
What demon possessed you, woman? Where does your coven hide when all of you are not out spreading terror and trying to kill me? And who is this she-devil you call the Silver Rose? This sorceress you all worship so much you are willing to die for her, believing she has the power to raise you from the dead. 
And what if she could? 
The thought sent a chill through Simon that had nothing to do with the wind whipping in from the sea. With a low groan, he retreated from the edge and rolled onto his back, seeking to recover his breath. He sat up slowly, brushing the tangle of hair from his face. He winced at the throb of his hand where the witch had lacerated him with her nails. The salty taste of blood filled his mouth. He had bitten his cheek when she had butted him with her head. 
He worked his jaw carefully. It hurt like the devil, but she hadn't managed to dislocate it or loosen any of his teeth. His injuries could have been a great deal worse, he reflected as his gaze fell upon the strange weapon he had forced from her hand. He had encountered such a hellish device before, witnessed the witch blade's lethal power. But he had never managed to gain possession of one to study it more closely. 
Simon picked it up carefully. At first glance the weapon looked like nothing more than a very thin stiletto with a needle-sharp tip. But once the stiletto punctured the skin, the hilt could be pushed, sending a poisonous liquid through the blade. Simon had no idea exactly how the witch blade worked, but he'd seen the results. The wound was small, looking far from mortal, but the death that it wrought was slow and agonizing. 
Simon set the weapon down, seeking some safe way of transporting it. He found the discarded doll and stripped the blanket away. Out of its swaddling, the doll was a crude semblance of a child. No more than a cloth head and body carefully weighted with something to give it just the right feel of a small infant when wrapped in the blanket. 
Simon seized the doll and hurled it off the cliff. His anger was tempered with relief, that that was all it had been this time - a fake. He'd witnessed more cruelty, death, and evil in the span of his twenty-eight years than most men twice his age.

</file>

<file= AmE06_P28>

"Of course," she said, laughing. "I love to fish, in river, stream, and sea. I swim like a fish as well, I sail, I ride. I can dance too, and bake, and sew a fine seam if I put my mind to it. But I'd rather read a book."

Every word she said disqualified her more for the life of a wellborn lady of the ton. Riding and dancing was expected. Sewing was acceptable. But reading books made her a bluestocking, and baking was something a servant did, and fishing and swimming, not the sort of thing any lady admitted to.

They came in sight of the long meadow that led to the drive to her grandfather's house.

They paused. He was searching for something to say. She was staring at him. She grinned again, pulled his head down, gave him a quick peck on the lips, not enough to signify, but enough to make him want to pull her close again. But before he could, she danced away, and left him, with laughter, as she ran back to her house.

"Tomorrow," she called back over her shoulder, "we go for the grandfather trout. And if it rains, I'll bake you a pie!"

He laughed in spite of himself, and watched her run away, wishing he could chase her, because he was sure he could catch her if he tried.

They didn't catch the grandfather trout. They caught some others, got chilled to the bone when clouds covered the sun, and ran all the way back to the house, laughing, before the downpour soaked them to the skin. He tried not to look at her in her drenched clothing. She ignored him. Then they changed into warm clothes, and spent time in front of the hearth in the salon, listening to the captain's stories about fish he had caught, had heard of being caught, and wished he had caught. The old fellow was, Constantine discovered, very amusing.

Then they had dinner, and after that, he discovered that Lisabeth could play the pianoforte, and sing very well indeed. He was about to go to bed, when the captain proposed a hand or two of piquet, and Constantine discovered that Lisabeth could play cards even better than she could sing. And although he kept losing and watching the captain, it was a wink from the old fellow that indicated it was Miss Lovelace who was cheating like a bandit.

Lisabeth pursed her lips when she saw his expression and then laughed until she was breathless, but only after Miss Lovelace had gone to bed. The captain left soon after, leaving Constantine and Lisabeth alone before a comfortable fire. It was too comfortable for Constantine. He stood immediately. He'd been going to tell Lisabeth he was leaving the next day, but didn't want to remain downstairs in the night alone with her for any reason. Tonight she'd dressed like a lady, in something green and clinging, though he'd begun to realize it didn't matter how she was clothed. There was always something alluring about her. He couldn't decide if it was her attitude, and so something she did on purpose, or his own confused attraction to her. At any rate, he knew being alone at night with her was no way to find out.

He said good night and went up the stair to his bed. He'd decided there was no hurry about leaving. However he watched, and he did, Lisabeth didn't look at him with desire. That was reassuring. It was also mildly annoying. He went to bed, musing about it.

The next day they rode out and visited with several villagers, Constantine was filled up with stories about his father and his great-grandfather, along with lashings of tea, fresh home-baked buns, and fresh sweet cream. Dinner that night was tasty, but both Constantine and Lisabeth were too full to eat much of it. After dinner, they played a home version of the forbidden game of hazard, where Miss Lovelace again skinned everyone else at the table.

Days passed into a week. And then two. Lisabeth continued to attract Constantine, but he thought possibly not on purpose. He didn't attempt anything but light banter. That amused her. Time flew by. He was scarcely aware of its passing, though he felt as though something were loosening inside him. His tension about his secret family history had vanished; perhaps, he thought, because it was not only not secret here, but actually admired. He felt freer, more relaxed, even younger, perhaps, he thought, because of the fresh sea air and exercise and good food. And the good company.

Constantine discovered that Lisabeth loved animals, books, laughter, and wicked men. Lisabeth got him to tell her about his life as a boy, and he was shocked to see the pity in her eyes.

"Your uncle never let you romp free?" she asked one afternoon, while they picnicked on the smooth green grass on a hill near an ancient bridge that crossed over a rushing silver brook.

"No," he said. "I see now it was because he worried that my wild side, the side he feared, would come out if I weren't under strict control."

"But you haven't a wild side!" she said. "Poor fellow."

"Poor fellow?" he said, lifting an eyebrow.

"Well, when we met you were horrified by your ancestors. But now I think that was not only because you were afraid people in London would find out about them, but also because you were just a bit" - she held her thumb and her forefinger a centimeter apart - "afraid that such wildness lurked in yourself. Don't fret," she said. "It doesn't."

"You sound disappointed."

"In truth," she said, "I am. No, listen. You know how taken I was by Captain Cunning's portrait. Now I realize that was because I was a very lonely, imaginative little girl. Now I can see that your great-grandfather might have terrified me in person. You are, after all, everything like him, and nothing like him, and I find I prefer a mannerly pirate, after all."

"Lonely?" he asked, focusing his attention on that and trying to ignore the rest of what she'd said. Those were waters too deep for him to measure. Especially with her sitting in the sunlight, her hair sparkling with shifting rainbow lights, her bonnet still tied but resting on her back. He noticed that because the front of her was too dazzling to look at directly.

"Yes," she said, with a shrug that made him finally look at what he'd been avoiding all afternoon. "Grandy was always off on business. The village children were nice to me, but they had chores and duties. I spent most of my time with Miss Lovelace."

"An interesting choice of governess companion," he said carefully.

"Yes. But you mustn't judge her too harshly. I knew what she did to survive, she told me herself. That, I think, was her way of teaching me to never even consider such a thing." She fixed a direct gaze on his. "You gentlemen think prostitution isn't such a bad thing, well, if you didn't, there wouldn't be any, would there? But it's dreadful. It's what turned Lovey into  ...  such an admirer of alcoholic spirits. She told me everything about the trade, with no dressing it up. Running away with a lover was one thing. That happens to both ladies and commoners, and is excusable, I suppose, if their love lasts. But selling oneself day after day and night after night to whoever has a few extra pence in his pocket? That's pure hell, whatever you gentlemen think."

Constantine couldn't speak. He could never discuss this with a lady. He could, though, he realized, and perhaps had, discussed it with a female who wasn't a lady. She was right, at the same time that she was utterly wrong to talk about it with him. And, he saw from her sudden smile, she knew it.

"Well, the sun is sinking," she said, rising and putting a hand over her eyes so she could scan the sky. "And the breeze is growing chill, but there's no rain coming. On the way here I noticed that the oaks are laden with acorns. The berry bushes are definitely ready to harvest. We make preserves and jams that are a treat with scones. So, your lordship, do you think you'd care to come berrying with me tomorrow?"

She was smiling at him as though she thought he was too straitlaced to go berrying like a peasant. He'd been about to finally tell her he'd be leaving. But he'd never gone berrying.

Lisabeth hid her smile as they rode back to Sea Mews. She hadn't been so happy for weeks, perhaps in her entire life. He'd changed. It wasn't just that he was no longer the immaculate gentleman of fashion. She'd been impressed at how handsome he'd been when he'd arrived at Sea Mews, like a picture in The Gentleman's Magazine. But the moment she'd spoken with him, she'd longed for him to be more accessible, more human, more the man she'd fallen in love with long before she'd met him.

She'd talked with Lovey about it. She hadn't dared confide in Grandy or he'd drag the poor fellow to the altar without further delay. Lovely had led a terrible life, but if there was one thing she knew as well as she knew Shakespeare, it was a man's desires. Even the most reasonable man, Lovey had said, might be ruled by his brain. But he was also steered by his body.

Looking at Constantine now, Lisabeth saw a handsome, athletic-looking gentleman. Even though his breeches had grass stains on them, and his boots were smudged, he didn't seem to care. Perhaps because he knew his valet would correct that. He was well read, he was cultured, he was perhaps still a bit of a prig, but he had a lovely sense of humor and he seemed a genuinely good man. The pirate, she conceded, might not have been. This Lord Wylde was a good deal more of a man than the vague outline of the dashing rogue she had imagined he might be. And for all his prudishness, his kisses and caresses had been sheer magic. She couldn't stop thinking about it.

And when Lisabeth did the things Lovey had recommended, such as flirting just a little, and wearing clothing guaranteed to make him notice her, or saying something off-color and then looking innocent, to put him off balance, she saw more of the man Lord Wylde might be. Because then, if she looked at him when he didn't realize she was watching, she saw a breathtakingly handsome rogue with the hot look of a devil in his eyes - if he was looking at her. He'd changed in more ways than that. She'd seen the prissiness melting off him, his distant manner thawing, as though the tight cage that had been built around his inner self were crumbling.

She didn't know if he knew it. She did though. He was becoming, day by day, the man she'd hoped to find. Now she just had to discover a way to keep him.
Chapter Eleven

It rained too hard for berrying the next day. But it was a perfect day to wander through Sea Mews, looking at portraits, hearing stories about the people who were portrayed, riffling through ancient logbooks and maps.

"Your family turns out to be far more moral than mine," Constantine finally told Lisabeth sadly.

She laughed, but by now he knew her well enough to know he wasn't being mocked.

"Not at all," she said. "The difference is that my family went about their business in less spectacular fashion. And then too," she added with a grin, "they were never caught. The family motto was caution. Your family did things in an extravagant way. Every other generation, that is. My people were more consistent. Aside from my poor foolish father, they became practically stolid as time went by."

</file>

<file= AmE06_P29>

He grinned, quickly shed all his clothes, and climbed in beside her. Taking her into his arms, he savored the feel of her soft warmth pressed close to his body and sighed with satisfaction.

"This is where ye belong, lass. This is how it should always be."

There was such sincerity in his voice, she knew she could trust in this. Artan wanted to be in her arms at night. At the end of the day, he wanted to be able to curl up with her beneath the blankets. It was a start.

Although she now held fast to a wariness that would be slow to leave her, she was willing to try again. He was right to remind her that few of their ilk married just because they wanted to. Lands, alliances, and coin were always involved. She found that she did believe that Artan would not marry her for gain alone, and she told herself she should count her blessings. No matter how she felt, there was one fact she could not argue: He was her husband and she belonged in his bed, not greeting him at the bedchamber door with ewers and rocks hurled at his head. Many another husband would feel that reason enough to beat her.

Wrapping her arms around his neck, she kissed him. Even though they had slept apart for only two nights, Cecily quickly found out that she was starved for the taste of him. He acted as if he was equally starved for the taste of her. He pushed her onto her back and crouched over her, studying her body intently as he smoothed his hands over her. She felt as if he was reacquainting himself with her body, and that only stirred her blood even more.

Their lovemaking soon grew wild, each of them acting as if they had been deprived of the other for months instead of just two nights. When they finally came together the ride was fast and furious, their cries blending in the room as they reached the heights together. The way Artan collapsed on top of her and slightly to the side so that he did not put his full weight on her made him appear to be as boneless as she felt.

"Now, do ye really think it was only Glascreag that I was thinking of when I married ye?" Artan asked as he inched his head over and let it rest more comfortably on her breasts. "I missed my pillows," he murmured. Cecily smiled and idly ran her hand up and down his back. "Nay, I guess there were one or two other things on your mind." She frowned up at the ceiling. "'Tis odd how that happened. I had ne'er e'en been properly kissed, and yet within four days of meeting ye I am creeping out of the keep and meeting ye down at the burn."

"Ah, fine as that was, mayhap we shouldnae speak of it."

"Why not?"

"Weel, I have just gotten ye to stop hurling things at me, I am nay sure I want ye to think too much on the other time ye were angry with me."

Smiling, she kissed the top of his head. "I didnae believe ye, so of course I was angry when ye tied me up and carried me away from my home. E'en before Sir Fergus confirmed all ye had said, I had begun to believe at least some of it. I also felt sure that ye believed it all, and how could I fault ye when ye truly felt ye were keeping me safe."

"I didnae do such a grand job of it, did I. The bastard got hold of ye."

She shrugged. "And ye rescued me. What I was trying to say is that complete innocence didnae save me from ye. It or this, whatever it is, was there from the start."

"Good. I was eager from the start, too."

She giggled when he briskly nuzzled her breasts, but then sighed. "He is going to come here after me, isnae he?"

"I suspicion he will, aye. There is a heavy purse he is hungering for."

"So I will be bringing trouble right to my uncle's gates."

"It has been there before."

"Aye, but that wasnae my trouble."

"And neither is this." Artan raised himself up on his elbows and kissed her. "This is all about greed. Sir Fergus's greed. Ye didnae ask to be betrothed to the fool. Nay, everyone involved in this is just tossing ye about to get what they want."

"Ye do ken how to make a lass feel so much better about things," she drawled.

Artan gave her an exaggerated grimace. "Sorry."

"No need to be. It is just the truth."

"Why do I have the feeling that, in some ways, ye have included me in that number."

Cecily knew her face revealed the sudden guilt she felt. "I dinnae want to and I certainly dinnae think of ye as akin to them. 'Tis just that discovering I have been surrounded by lies and deceit for so long and didnae have the wit to see it has made me question everything."

"As it should." He smiled when she looked at him in surprise. "I take no insult, lass. 'Tis my own fault that I dinnae have your full trust. Nay, I am just made determined to see that ye come to trust me again."

That should not make her nervous, Cecily told herself; then Artan kissed her and she found it hard to think. The fact that he could do that to her was one reason she knew she ought to be cautious. But as she wrapped her arms around him, she decided that in this there was some truth. He could no more hide his desire than she could, and although they were still new lovers, she had already learned that she had as much power over him as he did over her.
Chapter 15

Artan held Cecily closer, nuzzled her neck, and tried to ignore the banging on the bedchamber door. He had Cecily back where she belonged and he was eager for some morning delight. He slid his hand up her ribs and caressed her breast, grinning when she murmured huskily and rubbed her lovely backside against his groin. This was how a man should always greet the new day.

"Curse it, Artan!" yelled Bennet. "Get your arse out of bed! They are here!"

It took Artan a minute to understand the importance of that statement. Then, with a curse, he leaped out of bed and started to dress. A quick glance at the bed revealed that Cecily had already gotten out of bed and donned her shift. She looked pale and a little frightened and he tried to think of something comforting to say as he finished dressing.

"Does he have any Highlanders with him?" he asked Bennet, waiting until Cecily had her gown on before he opened the door.

"The MacIvors," Bennet answered even as Artan opened the door.

Cursing softly, Artan buckled on his sword. When Cecily stepped up beside him, he yanked her into his arms and kissed her. The fact that Sir Fergus had ruined his morning pleasure only made Artan even more eager to kill the fool. He set Cecily away from him, saw the fear still lingering in her eyes, and lightly stroked her cheek with his fingers.

"The MacIvors are enemies of Angus's?" she asked.

"Aye," replied Artan, "but Sir Fergus willnae find them verra good allies. They dinnae truly hate Angus, ye ken, but they do covet Glascreag. I suspicion they think they might use these Lowlanders to help them get these lands."

"They will soon find out they have made a verra poor choice," said Bennet.

"Aye, that they will. Do ye ken who Crooked Cat is, lass?"

Cecily nodded, "Angus has introduced me to nearly everyone in the keep."

"Go to her. She is the one who will be readying the women to do their part."

"Aye, I will find her. Ye will be careful, willnae ye, Artan?" she asked softly, fighting the urge to cling to him.

"Wheesht, this wee scuffle will be o'er and done ere the sun sets." He gave her a quick, hard kiss and strode out of the room to make his way to the walls with Bennet.

As Cecily finished dressing and braided her hair, she told herself to be brave. Artan was a warrior. It was why Angus wanted him to follow him as laird of Glascreag. The wife of a warrior had to be strong and support her husband, not weigh him down with tears and fear. She could not give in to the urge to crawl beneath the bedcovers and pray until the fighting was over. Cecily was determined not to shame Artan with any show of weakness.

She found Crooked Cat in the kitchens barking out orders to the women gathered there. It took a moment for the old woman to see that Cecily was standing there. After she looked Cecily over carefully, her rheumy eyes surprisingly sharp, she ordered Cecily to a table set in the far corner of the kitchen.

"Ye are to cut these into bandages," she ordered, setting a pile of old linens on the table along with a very sharp knife. "And when ye are done with these I have some herbs for ye to grind up."

"Are ye sure this is all ye wish me to do?" It was not a very exacting chore, not something Cecily thought a warrior's wife should do.

Crooked Cat leaned closer and lightly patted Cecily's cheek with her somewhat gnarled, calloused hand. "Ye are a new wife, lassie."

"Aye," she agreed, unable to hide her confusion, "although I dinnae ken why that matters."

"It matters. Ye havenae been hardened to the way of it all yet."

"Oh." She sighed. "I am nay sure I will e'er be hardened to the fact that men seem compelled to swing swords at each other."

The old woman laughed. "Aye, fools that they are, but e'en if they set down their swords, some other fools would quickly pick them up and probably take a swing at the ones who put them down. Our men do it to protect Glascreag and us, and that is no small thing, aye?"

"Aye," Cecily agreed and picked up some of the linen. "I will do this then, but I do have a skill at healing, ye ken. 'Tis the one thing I was taught to do and I am good at it."

After glancing around to make sure everyone was doing as they had been told, Crooked Cat looked back at Cecily and asked, "What do ye mean it was the only thing ye were taught?"

"My guardians didnae really teach me how to run a household for reasons I am nay sure I will e'er be told or understand. Howbeit, Lady Anabel considered the healing arts a lowly thing, fit only for peasants to learn."

"Ah, I see. She thought to shame ye."

Cecily found she could actually smile about it. "Aye, so I was always verra careful to ne'er let her ken how much I enjoyed it all. So, if ye need help tending to any wounds - "

"I will send for ye right quick."

After the woman hurried away, Cecily began to cut the linen into strips fit for bandages. At the moment, tucked away in the corner of the kitchens was probably the best place for her. It meant she could not see the men preparing for battle or see what force confronted them. She had told Crooked Cat the truth. She doubted she would ever be truly hardened to the fact that Artan would be facing men who sought to kill him, now and all the other times he might have to go to battle. She could only pray that she could hide her fear and thank God that Angus had taught him well.

</file>

